MIT 

LECTURE 1:
    what is psychology and economics, or behavioural economics?
        it is a field of academic research that studies the joint influences of psychological and economic factors on behaviour.
        it is an attempt to take insights from biology to make economic models more realistic, hence more prediticive so we can come up with better policies.
    
    old assumptions:
        people know their utility functions and they try to optimize it and they don't make mistakes in doing so.
        people are driven by self interest. They don't care about what other people think about them.
        people prefer stable preferences.
        risk aversion: people are risk averse. They prefer low risk.
        people are perfect information processors.
        people have no taste for beliefs or information, they only use information to make better decisions. It doesn't effect their utility function.
        are perfectly rational.
        maximize utility.

    when you look at world these assumptions could be violated:
        people tend to prefer the information that is in their favour.
        transitivity of choices is not always well defined.
        it is tough to update belief as in bayesian systems.
        people care about what other people think.
        people don't always want more information, eg thirteen from house not wanting to know the result if she has huntington.
        memory is limited.
        people give charity.
        attention is limited.

    the world is full of cognitive biases, people do not behave perfectly.
    we can model these deviations, based on improved assumptions.
    key principles of standard economics still apply.
    we just focus on important deviations.

    very often prices are the most important aspect of choice, morals etc also play a small part.
    
lecture 2: Overview II 
    How do economists think about human behaviour?
        1. goal driven individual behaviour: constrained optimization.
            - utility function: what makes people happy.
        risk averse: avoiding risk.
        2. Beliefs: what do people believe about their environment?
        3. Choice/Decision making: how do people use the above to make decisions?

    psychological insights can improve our understanding of each of these components.

    social preferences:
        how do people think about themselves and others.
        Much of classical economics assumes that people are selfish.
        charity is like 2% of US GDP, hence people do care about others.
        people can do stuff to feel good about themselves.
        you could do things for to maintain a social image, that you care about what other people think of you.
        or you might do stuff because, because doing it is necessary to survive.
        you might do stuff just to get something in retain, perhaps a favour.
        or you just don't like inequality in society.
        