what is iot?
    the iot is the intelligent connectivity of physical devices, driving massive gains in terms efficiency, business growth and quality of life.

    why:
        efficiency
        improves quality of life.
    
    iot is going to be everywhere.
    it is used by IT,consumer,industry etc.

    everything could be connected to each other and make them talk to each other.
    and be connect to cloud.

    in heart it is:
        sensors and actuators + connectivity + people and processes.
        using internet the data flows.
        there are processes running on it.
    sensors:
        to sense light,humidity,sound,tilt,electricity,leaks,flow,gas,temperature,position etc 
    connectivity:
        using bluetooth,wifi,ethernet,satellite,etc.
        we can control the device using internet.
    people and proceses:
        this data can be used for better decision making or to notify consumer,etc 
        remote monitoring,automation etc 

    eg smart thermostats,connected cars,activity trackers,smart outlets,etc 
    2 billion devices in 2014

    can be used in health,home,etc 

    home and building security,building automation etc.

building blocks of an IOT system:
    hardware:
        microcontroller:
            ardruino,raspberry pi etc.
        shields:
            wifi,bluetooth,ethernet etc 
        electrical components:
            resistors,copacitors,transistors,semiconductors etc.
        electro-mechanical:
            like a relay(like a switch in wire)
    software:
        IDE
        drivers  //for translation
        libraries  //prewritten code
        database
        cloud to log entries.
        programming language.
    
    iot devices could be talking to each other as well.
    we can use web sockets for devices to connect to each other.
    
    ardruino UNO is one of the microcontroller.
        you get a port for power,a port for USB to connect to your computer,and you have a lot of pins.
        and ardruino nano is a smaller version of the same,with same port for power and to connect to computer.

        you can't connect to internet using these boards and you have to add ethernet shield on top of them.ethernet shild is also a board.you can add sd card also to the shield.there are smaller shield chips also.or have a board with both internet and microcontroller.And there is also a wifi shield.

    go to arduino to download the ide

    every program is called a sketch.
    go to file and examples to run example programs.
    verify,upload,to the device.
    you have pins like pin 8 to connect to say outside led.And in program you will refer to that pin on board.

    bread board is used for demos.

    
    
     
