Jira:
    issue tracking and project management tool.
    word comes from gojira, japanese for godzilla.
    used for Agile methodology. Could be Kanban, Scrum, or any other.
    we get Agile Board.
    sprint: predetermined amount of time where team decides what to do. Them comes the sprint meeting.
    you drag tickets from one column to another on board.
    issue type: Story: represents user story: like 
        As a _______, I want ____________, so that ___________.
        eg: As a driver, I want my car's dashboard to be voice activated so that i can get directions safely while driving.
        you use user stories to break your work.
        you Break an Epic into mulitiple user stories.
        eg core functionality for our notetaking app is an epic, that you would break into multiple stories.
        stories == user stories.
        epic == a group of related stories.
    JIRA terminology:
        Issues: containers for fields, and fields hold all your data for your issue like Description, Summary, Assignee, Due Date.
        they are like posted noted that you can pin on board, they are empty and the n you fill them with fields like summary and asssignee etc.
        you write your stories and bugs as issues, and an Epic consists of multiople stories and bugs.
        you can have custom issue types.
        you can have custom fields for an issue. Eg OS field for bug issue type.
        project in Jira:
            projects are containers for issues. Eg WEb Dev, Marketting etc.
            issues live in project.

Jira interface:
    yourwebsite.atlassian.net/jira
    confluence: atlassians wiki tool for documentation.
    given a jira account you can have different administrative permissions.
    there is assigned to me button on homepage.
    even dashboard shows what you have been assigned.
    you can start a team etc in people.
    you click on create to create an issue.
    there is search bar to search stuff.
    there is also a notification button to see notifications.
    
Types of projects in Jira:
    Team-managed projects and Company managed projects.
    team managed projects are newer ones, you dont' need admin projects to create them.
    company managed projects need admin privilages, and entities can be shared across other company-managed projects. Eg issue types can be shared where as in team manged projects that is not possible.
    team managed projects have prject scoped entities hence no need for special permissions to create a project as it effects nothing.
    team managed prjects is a new feature and was introduced in 2018.
    team managed prjects are easy to setup and maintain.
    
To create a project, click on project and then create project.
    now you choose the type of prject, like kanban, scrum etc.
    some templates you need to buy.
    workflow: eg To-do, inprogess, done, basically the name of columns.
    you can't convert team manged to other type and vice versa.
    key means, what would be the name of issues like if key is web then the issue names would be web-1, web-2 etc.
    on board you click on your name nex to search bar and it only shows issues assigned to you.
    group by None to go back to default look.
    type C to create an issue or click on create.
    check create another button, if you need to create multiple issues at once hence click on create gives you another screen.
    click on configure fields to customize what fields you need or add an field.,
    if you click on issue, you can add comment, or assign it or label it etc.
    to add an issue type, go to project settings then issue types and then you can add or remove one.
    you can even customize fields for each issue there.
    you can add Due date field.
    on details in setting you can rename your project, and change key change default assignee etc.
    in setting you can edit board as well.
    you can even add multiple status's  in one column so you don't have to maintain separate column for each single status. And you can move to specific status in a column.
    you also have access setting for who can see your board and project.
    there is setting for notification.
    there is setting for features, that you want in your dashboard.
    there is some automation built in jira.


company managed project:
    you need jira adimistrator privilage to do so.
    in company managed projects you can have as many boards as you want.
    roadmap is 1000 foot view of the epics.
    you get backlog for scrum project.
    active spring contains day to day activity.
    under reports you get burnown chart etc, it contains all the statistics.
    in code you can link it to git etc.
    project pages is link to confluence.
    you need administrative permissions to see settings here.
    click on board to create a new board.
    scrum board shows remaning days for sprint.
    insight shows you sprint progress.
    click on complete the spring to complete the sprint.
    issues that were not completed can be send back to backlog.
    or you can add them to next sprint.
    in backlog you create new sprint and add issues to it by drag and drop.
    then you click on start the sprint.
    filter tell jira what you want to see on board, it could be only progress.

you can star a board so it is easy to search.
you can create releases for a project and it will have snapshot of the board at that point in time.
in roadmap you can create epic and child issues under it.
you can add these issues to upcoming sprints.


for user management you can create groups for same kind of access.
    
