google career certification:
    a framwork for developing and delivering and sustaining complex products.
    it is iterative incremental approach.
    each increment is called an increment.
    scrum is based on Empiricism: the idea that true knowledge comes from actual lived experience.
    transparency, inspection and adaptation.
    it is easy to be transparent with smaall teams hence 3 to 9 memebers in a team.
    there are timely checks to detect underiable changes.
    changes are embraced.
    roles:
        mission: why are we doing work, and product vision says what to do.
        scrum master, product owner, and development team(developers)
        build owner is responsible for what a team builds, they make sure everyone in team understands why.
        scrum master is like the project manager, and he unblocks team from getting things done. Their job is to make things fast.
        scrum teams are cross-funtional.
        scrum teams are self organising.
        scrum master helps team to be best, they implement the rule and help the team to solve problem, they manage the product backlog.
        they faiciliate the scrum events.
        product owners ensure that right product is being build, they represent the customers.
        product owner inspects the development so far done.
        scrum master is like the team leader.
        
7 minute video:
    plan, build, test, review, in each sprint, each sprint takes 1 to 3 weeks.
    you ship your product after n sprints.
    product backlog: where product owners keep user stories.
    user story: As a --------- i need ---------- so that -------------
    higher priority user stories go to sprint backlog.
    burndown chart shows the progress so far.
    
    three ceramonies:
        sprint planning
        daily scrum 
        sprint review
        in sprint review you show product to product owner.
        in daily scrum you say your status.
        
google talk by Dr jeff Sutherland:
    scrum is a term that comes from rugby, when they form that thing before the restart of the game.
    scrum is about hacking leadership.
    make work visible and it is amazing. Use a board.
    self organising is amazing, instead of following a plan.
    right size team is 4.6 people.
    
    
Estimation is figuring out how much it will take, you can use fibonacci sequence, they are qualitative not quantitative numbers, we don't use hours but difficulty level. tjey don't represent hours, you can use reference stories to assign or you call them points.

don't move stuff to in progress beforehand until you start working kn jt, as that gets added to time taken.
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    