To write correct english without making mistakes.

terminal pucntuation: used to end a sentence.
    period/full stop (.)
        AmE means american english and BrE means british english.
        used to mark end of declarative and imperative sentences.
        i teach English.
        We had pizza for dinner last night.
        If it rains tommorow, I'll bring my umbrella.
        these were declarative sentences,they declare something and give us some information.
        imperative sentences are like commands.
        Please don't feed the animals.
        Let me know waht time your flight arrives.
        If it rains tommorow,bring your umbrella.
    exclamation mark  (!)
        to convey strong emotion or feeling.
        I'm really excited about my new job. (no emotion)
        I'm really excited about my new job! (exitement)
        you're fired! (anger)
        you can express any emotion with exlamnation mark.
        you can use with both declarative and imperative sentences.
        Johnny,don't play with your food! the sentence is imperative here

        it is also used after interjections like Ouch! or Wow! 

    question mark     (?)
        used to mark the end of a question.
        if the sentence is a question put the question mark.
        Are we allowed to feed the animal?
        Why are yo still here? i told you to get out !

    there is no space between the last letter of a sentence a a terminal pucntuation mark.But you put a space after the terminal mark and begin with a capital.

Pauses: tell the reader to stop briefly and then continue reading.
    comma (,)
        1. to separate items in a list.
            we need to buy milk,eggs,flour and sugar for the cake.
            the job of comma is to show these pauses.we pause after reading each name in the list.
            you can include or not the comma before the and like eggs,flour, and something else.
            if you only have two items use and and avoid using ,
            if more than 2 items are there,put comma after every item except the last and use and before the last item.
            there is no space before , but one after it.

            the list could be verb phrases.
                Why don't you go upstairs, take a shower, and get read to leave?
        2. to separate words that are not part of the sentence.
            Unfortunately, he missed his flight.
            Unfortunately is an extra,it is called a sentence adverb eg sadly, hopefully etc.

            Forms of address:
                Emma, can you come here and help me with this?
                Sir, please have a seat.
                Ma'am, can I get you something to drink?
        
        3. to separate linking words : however,therfore,for example, etc.
                Her parents wanted her to be a doctor. However, she had other plans.
                In fact, it is one of the best i have ever read.
                She, however, had other plans.
        4. Clauses : independent clause: complete sentence,dependent clause is one that is not complete sentence.
                eg. When Rahul gets home from work is a dependent clause.
                When Rahul gets home from work, he watches TV for an hour.
                hence we use comma after a dependent clause/subordinate clause.
                even if you use two independent sentences in a sentence you must put a comma after first one eg. They offered him a promotion, and he accepted it immediately. you also use a conjuction here as well,and the conjuction is necessary to connect two indepent clauses.

                if the independent clause comes first then you don't use comma, eg I was so happy when I heard the news!
                you don't use comma with essential relative clause also e.g That lady is the scientist who won the Nobel this year.
                you use comma with non essential realtive clauses. eg People love to celebrate New Year's Eve,which is the last day of the year.
                you can have more than 2 clauses in a sentence.

    semicolon(;)
        used to combine closely related sentences
        instead of using having a new sentence we can use conjuction and a comma or separate using ;
        eg. I went to see a movie with my wife. I thought it was amazing,but she thought it was terrible. or use I thought it was amazing; she thoguht it was terrible.
        we can also use however,in fact etc.
        ; makes whole thing a one sentence.

    colon (:)
        Lists 
        it introduces new information after an independent clause.
        Danny's seafood restaurant specializes in four items: prawn, shrimp, crab, and lobster.
        Whenever you drive, you must do the following: war your seat belt, obey traffic laws, and keep your eyes on the road.

        Clauses:
        Let me make this very clear: if you fail another test,I'me taking away all your video games.
        i can but there is a big problem: i don't speark any English!

        instead of : in lists we can use in  eg it specializes in prawn,shrimp,crab and lobster.


Apostrophe (')
1. Mark contraction:  I'm is I am ,She's is She is He'd is He would doesn't don't .
    you can only contract two words at a point 
    They're not coming or use They aren't coming.
2. Possesion: brother's birthday. world's etc 
    used with nouns. 
    if word already ends with s eg Thomas' or Thomas's both are correct for singulars,But for Plurals only put Apostrophe at the end like girls' years'
    juse be consistent.

    it is not used with possesive pronouns like ours,theirs,hers,its,yours,
    That room is hers,is this book yours?

    It's is     it is 
    Its is possesive like the dog wagged its tail.


Quotations marks " " are used to indicate direct speech  eg "i love to read a book" said Stacey. "Waht did you do yesterday?" asked Lucy.
Parenthesis () are used for extra information from the rest of the sentence.
    On the weekends I visit James (my best friend).
    Yesterday (Firday) was the last day of school.

Square brackets [] used by the editor to indicate extra information technical.
The book states that "When climbing it [mountain], it is important to be very safe".

Slash / to indicate OR and is read as OR.
but also used for date.
Hyphen - is used to join words to separate syllables in a word.
    She is very self-confident.
    Her son is going to be four-year-old.

dash for range 1999-2005 ,Dubai-Uk
Ellipsis ... to ommited words or to add effect to a sentence. 
She waked into the shop... then walked straight bak out.


CAPITALISATION RULES:
    start of a sentence.
    after full stop.
    Noun. Hridaan ,New York. English,Hindi,French.
    I am British.
    My father was born in June.
    where is Mom,My mom.
    First word of a quote.
    I is always capital as it is a proper noun.
    with common noun you can use lowercase.
    you but if if it is at the begining of the sentence then use You.