what is financial accounting:
    the process of identifying, recording, summarising and analysing an entity's financial transactions and reporting them in financial statements.

    step1: identify the transactions.
    step2: journal entry, a record of a financial transaction.
            core principal: the stuff that a business owns is equal to the stuff that business owes, things that you own are called Assets eg cash and inventories, liabilities

youtube: financial accounting
    accouting is the langauge of finance.

module 1: financial statments
    jargons:
        Assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses, divident, shareholders equity 

    Assets: anything of "value", anything that a company owns or controls,created from past transactions that gives us future economic benefit.in my own understanding if you can sell it, it is an asset. Youth is not an asset, beauty is not counted as an asset as there is no market for it. And you can't put a number on it. eg cash, Accounts receivable (someone who owes you), inventories (produced goods), property plant and equipment (land, building, computer etc),investment etc are some of financial assets of a company.

    liabilities: something you owe (that has to be repayed in future) eg loans, bills, mortgage etc anything a company owes. or any future economic obligations of a company eg Accounts payable(that you owe eg phone bills), Notes payable (bank loans, student loans etc)

    shareholders equity: if you own a house that is worth 300k, and you took mortgage to own it and as of now you have 200k mortgage, if you were to sell you house today you get 100k and mortgage company gets 200k hence your piece of the pie is your shareholder equity, it is how much truly you own it.
        300k  = 200k +  100k 
    hence      Assets = liabilities + shareholders equity 
    more intuitive equation is shareholders equity = Assets - liabilities
    hence shareholders equity is the owners piece of pie.

    common shares: normal kind of shares 
    retained earnings: when you make profit in a company you can either give dividents or keep the earnings in the company, keeping the profit within the company is called retained earnings.

    revenue: earnings, what happens after company does what it does, selling, tuition, fee, rent revenue.
        it could be negative then it is called loss.
    expenses: costs of prouduction eg wages, rent, labor etc all sources of cost.
    divident: if profit is divided into share holders.

    Accounting equation:
        shareholders equity = Assets - liabilities
    
    curent asssets: assets that are expected to be liquidated (sold) within a year eg an inventory.
    long term assets: one that you keep for years.
        same kind of stuff for liabilities.
    Accounts receivable are current assets as people usually pay what they owe within a year.
    CASH is the best current assaet.

    suplies is an asset that you have, supplies expense is how much you have already used up over time

financial statements:
    income statements: revenues and expenses. it captures revenues - expenses , and revenue - expenses is the profit/ net income  hence income statment tells us if the company is profitable or not. This is the first thing you look it, it is also called the statment of operations. Also called PNL, profit and loss.

    statement of changes in equity: you account common shares and retained earnings, what did you do with your equity.

    Balance sheet: this is second thing you look at, it lists all the assets of company, it also lists all debts/liabilities and it also shows shareholders equity, this is where you can apply fundamental theorem of accounting.

    cash flow statements: how did the cash change, inflows and outflows. It is about money/cash. A company must not run out of cash.

    preparing income statement:
        in the statement at top mention, name of the company, name of the statement, and date.
        given a list of all kinds of things that very bought sold, revenue, expenses etc.
        here is income statement

                                spacetime 
                            Income statement
                    for the year ended Dec 31, 2024  #you can have it for quarter etc also
        
        Revenues:
            shutter revenue                    $69,000
        Expenses:
            fuel expenses         $11,000
            depreciation exp.       2,000
            insurance exp.          4,000
            telephne exp.             400
            wages exp.             30,000
            utilities exp.          1,200

            total expenses                      48,600

        Net income                             $20,700    #put dollar on first entry or the net entry.

        #net income in itself isn't good or bad, you have to check how much were they making for the previous years.


    statement of changes in equity: # statement of retained earning 
        
                            spacetime
                 statment of changes in equity
                 for the year ended Dec31, 2024 

                 common shares         retained earnings        Total 

    jan 1, 2024    $60,000                   $10,000              $70,000       #how much worth shares company owns and how much was their retained earnings.
    #common shares might not change, but the retained earings go up by profit at the end of the year, and we deduct any dividents.
    Add  Net income                         20,700               20,700
    Deduct dividents                        (3000)               (3000) # () represent negative.
    dec 31, 2024   $60,000                   $27,700               $87,700
    

    preparing balance sheet:


                            spacetime 
                          Balance Sheet # statement of financial position 
                          Dec 31, 2024 # we only date balance sheet we don't say for a year.
                        
            Asssets                                            Liabilities     #put assets in order of liquidity and liabilities in terms of how urgent they are 
        Current Assets                                     Current Liabilities 
            Cash                        5000                    Accounts payable    2200
            Account recieble            1000                    wages payable       1600
            office supplies              500                Total current liabilities         3800
        Total current assets                    6500        Long term liabilities
        Long term assets                                           bank liabilities 45,000 
            equipment                 30,000                total liabilities                 48,800
            building                 100,000
        Total long term assets               130,000        common shares           60000 #we get these two for the end of new year after calculated above.
                                                            retained earnings       27,700 
                                                            Total shareholder equity            87,700
                                                            
        Total assets                 136,500                Total L and S.E                     136,500


financial ratios:
    current ratio: current Assets/ current liabilities it tell you can the company pay short term bills 
                    6500/3800=1.71   above 1.5 is considered safe,  below 1.5 means risk but this doesn't apply for big companies, it describes if you can run out of money, shareholders don't like too much of this ratio as this means there is too much of money laying still.
    debt ratio:   total liabilities/ total assets  = 48,800/136,500=35.75, it says if company is sold off today 35 percent of assets have to go to pay debt.

    equity ratio:  total shareholders equity/total assets= how much of total assets are owned by shareholders.


module 2: journal entries.
        if you buy a car, you asset of cars goes up by 30000, but your cash asset goes down by 30000.
        accountants record it as debits and credits.
        debits and credits have nothing to do with debit card and credit card.
        Assets going up is debit, and Assets going down is credit, opposite for other two.
        Assets      =       liabilities    +    stockholders equity



                            Dr.                 Cr.
        July17      
            Car             30,000
                Cash                            30,000
            purchased a car for cash.

        Augest30
            Bus             40,000
                loan                            40,000
            purchased a bus on loan.
        
        revenue is credit, expense is debit and dividents is debit.

        first thing is to record transactions/journal entries, and it is done in the form of credits and debits.

        the second step is to post these journal entries into T accounts, this is sometimes called posting to the ledger.

        what is a T account:
            A T account is a big T with an account name.
            
            eg T account for Cash, Assets, liabilities, shareholders equity , revenue, expense,dividents. 


                                    Cash  //left side for debit and right side for credit.
                        --------------------------------
                            1000            6000
                            5000            1000
                             400             200
                    ------------------------------------------
                total        200

                    you do the same for all kinds of things.

        trial balance: we checking if debits == credits.

                          The right Suff Inc.
                            Trial Balance 
                        for the month ended Aug 31 
                            Dr.              Cr.
                Cash       950
                supplies   200
                equipment  4000
                Accounts payable              400
                bank loan                     5000
                dividents  500
                expenses   300
                ------------------------------------
                totals     5400              5400

            you get to see all accounts in one short.


module 3:
    Adjusting Journal Entries:
        Assets lose value over time. Eg your 25k car has lost some of its value ,and on next months Balance sheet this should reflect.
        The value of assets might appreciate or depriciate.
        so accountant has to do it.

    














coursera:
    you record transactions first, then you summarize using statistics.
    financial accouting is to give summary to investors usually.
    tax accounting for computing taxes payable.
    managerial accouting for internal decision making.

    SEC (securities and exchange commision) asks companies to file Annual report  called 10-K which is about 300 page.
        10-Q is quarterly report
        8-K Current report (for big decisions of events)
        must be prepared accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP)

        quarter reports are little bit too much as if you ship goods in one quarter and cash in next, you can't tell if it was a good deal or bad.
        or if you buy equipment in one quarter and use them in rest of the quarters.
        IFRS (international financial reporting standard) for more than 100 countries.
        even GAAP would go to IFRS.

        since company itself(its management) gives the statements, there is a chance of misbehaviour.
        so the Audit committee of the board of directors provides oversight of management's process. Auditors are hired by them.

        SEC and other regulators take action against the firm if any violations of GAAP or other rules are found.
        information intermediiaries like stock analysts, media etc may expose or flee firms with questionable accounting.


    required financial statements:
        balance sheet: financial position (listing resources and obligations) on a specific date.
    income statment:
        results of operations over a period of time using accrual accouting(i.e recognition tied to business activities not cash flows)
    statement of cash flows:
        sources and uses of cash over a period of time.
    staetment of stockholders equity:
        changes in stockholders equity over a period of time.

finacial statements tell how good a company is doing.

cash flows:
    cash flows alone can be decieving as you could be taking a lot of loans or you could be investing a lot.
    you can divide cash into operating cash flows, investments (eg for equipments etc ), financing( borrowing and issuing stock)

    hence in a company there are operating activites, investing activities, financing activites which give result in different kind of cash flows.
    negative cash flow in parenthesis.

net income:
    using income statements: results of operations over a period of time using accrual accountin(considering what we have done and not the seeing just the cash flows, here business activity is considered like what we sold and how much it cost us ).
    this could give better picture than just cash flows.
    revenue: increase in owners equity from providing goods and services.
    expenses: decrease in owners equity incurred in the process of genearting revenues.

    net income or earnings or net profit = revenue - expenses.

    income statements tell you what has happened and cash flows statement tells you what is coming next or what to expect next.
    if car you bought is an expense, then for that years expense  it would be total cost - its worth next year.

Balance sheet:
    all resources and obligations
    resources: assets 
    obligations: obligations 
    Accounts receivable: what others owe you, it is an asset.
    common stock: shareholders investment in your company like during ipo.
    ratainded income = profit - divident.
    stockholders equity: owners equity, claims on assets by owners of business, from shares and retained earnings.

statements of stockholders equity:
    we will get to it later.



in detail these statements:
    balance sheet:
        the balance sheet equation/ accounting idenity:
            assets = liabilities + stockholder's equity //how much do shareholders claim.
            it must always balance.
            hence if you increase or decrease one side of equation, you have to increase or decrease the other side as well.
            key feature:
                must always balance (double entry bookkeeping)
                changes over a period between two balance sheets are summarized in the income statement, statement of stockholders equity and statement of cash flow.

            shareholders equity is what makes share prices worth, shares are backed by shareholders equity which is how much money the company has.

            assets: cash and noncash assets:
            liabilities: debt
            stockholders equity: countributed capital + retained earnings.

            the differences in retained earnings from one years equation to another years equation is explained by the income statement.

            the difference between the assets and liabilities from one year to another is explained by the statement of cash flows.

            contributed capital is money raised from shareholders.
            the difference between the contributed capital is shown by statement of stockholder equity.

            retained earnings = prior retained earnings + net income - dividents.
            if revenue increases by 100 then assets go up by 100.

            Assets - liabilities = contributed capital + prior retained earnings + revenue - expenses - dividents
    
    Assets:  resource that is expected to provide future economic benefits( generate future inflows )
        Accounts receivable is also an asset.
        transactions that will happen in future is not an asset. However if one side of transaction is done then it is an asset.
        inventory is also an asset. 
        if you get discount when you buy something, the value of that asset is what you paid for it not what it was priced.
        prepaid rent is also an asset. But only how more long you have it not how much you already used of it.
        if the value of your asset increases in market, it value in your balance sheet is still for how much you bought it, its new value would make it to balance sheet if you sell it.
        sometimes the value of a company is more on stock market than on income statements because of the brand value, which we skip in accounting statements.

    liabilities:
        creditors(non owners: whom you owe)
        an obligation based on current or based benefits or goods.
        you recieve something and that creates an obligation.
        eg borrowing from bank so you an obligation to pay back with interest.
        Accounts payable: when you owe to supplier, it is a liability.
        Income tax payable: it is also a liability in return of government allowing you to do business in that country. You can estimate them.
        you make a lot of estimates in accouting when you don't have enough information. so you put your best estimates on financial statements.
        contracts signed without getting benefits yet are not liabilities.
        basically contracts don't make it to accouting statements.
        salaries payable, are also liabilities.
        interest is not liability when you take the loan as you can pay it back without interest, only that part of interst is liability of which time has passed.

    stockholders equity:
        residual claim on assets after settling claims of creditors (assets - liabilities)
        also called the net worth, net assets, net book value.
        two sources of stockholders equity:
            contributed capital(arises from sale of shares)
            common stock(par value) when you issue the stock.
            additional paid in capital(excess over par value)
            treasury stocks(stock repurchased by company)
            retained earnings: arise from operations.
                accumulation of net income, revenue - expenses - dividents , since the start of business.
                retained earning at end = retained earnings at beginings + netincome - dividents.
            dividents are not considered as expense, they are recorded as reduction of retained earnings on the declaration date. if not paid on time then they become an expense.


    debits and credits:
    Three fundamental bookkeeping equations.
        Assets = liabilities + stockholder equity
        sum of debits = sum of credits
        begining account balance + increase - decrease = ending account balance 
        these three equations must be in balance at all times.

    Debits and Credits:
        Debit (Dr.) = Left-side Entry 
        Credit (Cr.) = Right-side Entry
        sometimes debits are good, sometimes they are bad and same for credit.

        Debit/Credit Bookkeeping:
            Assets + Expenses = Liabilities + contributed capital + retained earnings + Revenues 
                Debits        =    Credits 
            hence every transaction must have at least one debit and atleast one credit.
            Debits must equal credits for all transactions.
            No negative numbers are allowed.

        Accounts and Account balances:
            Normal Account:
                the type of balance the account carries under normal circumestances.
            T account:
                A record of all changes in an accouting quantity.
                Debits on left and Credits on right.
            Account Balance:
                difference between sum of debits and sum of credtis for the account 
            Change in Account balance equation.
                begining balance + increases - decreases = ending balance.

         balance sheet equation:
            assets = liabilities + equity 
             if you take 100 dollars of loan, assets will go up by 100 and liabilities will go up by hundred and equity will remain unchanged.

             journal Entry:
                Dr. Cash(+A)   100
                    Cr. Notes payable(+L) 100
                put an indent after Dr. and then write Cr. for that entry.
                -L,-A for reducing.
                for something to go up, Dr. it with that debit, and for something to do down, Cr. it with that amount, eg for cash to go down Cr. it with that amount and cash is an asset.
                you can write credit and debit for each asset, liabilities and equity individually and then see credits and debits of assets is equal to sum of other two. You can write net of credits and debits also as result at bottom for each.
                journal entries and T-accounts are used track the effects of transactions.
                assets and expenses go up with debit and liabilities and equity goes up by credit.
                one entry can have multiple credits or debits. Just write debits at top and credits below with indent.
        companies share annual report every year, and everything is in there. It is a few hundred pages long.

Revenues expenses and the income statement.
    accrual accouting: accouting for revenues and expenses that are tied to business activites, not to cash flows.
    net income != net cash flow.
    revenue is earned entity, and the accounts receivable.

    first step is to post in  journal entry and T account, and second step to to unadjusted trial balance to check if everything is alright.

Adjusting Entries:
    the next step is to adust the entries.
    Adjusting entires is internal transactions that update account balances in accordance with accrual accouting prior to the preparation of financial statements.
    this is account doing journal entries to make accounts up to date.
    these are done at the end of the finacial year.
    
    Deferred Revenues and Expenses:
        Update existing account balances to reflect current accouting values.
        Cash flow in past; recrod revenue/expense now.
    
    Accrued Revenues and Expenses:
        Create new accoutn balances to reflect unrecorded assets or liabilities.
        Record revenue/expense now; cash flow in future.
    
    Deffered Expenses:
        Are there any assets that have been used up this period and should be expensed.
            eg prepaid Rent, prepaid insurance, Depreciation or amortization.
            make journal entires.
                Dr. expense 
                    Cr. Prepaid Asset 
    
    Deffered Revenues:
        Are there any liabilitites that have been fulfilled by delivery of goods or services that should be recognized as revenue.
            Dr. Unearned REvenue liability
                Cr. Revenue 
            
    Accrued Expenses:
        Have any expenses accumulated during the period that have not yet been paid.
            Income TAxes payable,
            interest payable.
            salaries and wages payable.
            Dr. expense
                Cr. payable liability
    Accrued Revenue:
        Have any revenue accumulated during the period that have not yet been recorded. 
            eg interest receivable
            rent receivable etc 
            Dr. REcievable Asset
               Cr. REvenue
            
    Depreciationa nd Amortization:
        Allocate the orignal cost of a long-lived asset over its useful life.
            Matches the total cost of asset to the revenue it generates over its peropd of use.

        tangible asssets: require depreciation 
        intangible assets: require amortization like trade mark etc 

        Depreciation is not deduced from teh tangible asset account. Rather, it is recorded in a Contra Asset(XA) called Accumulated Depreciation, which 
            has a credit balance.
            is subtracted from PP&E on the balance sheet to get the "Net Book Value".
            they go up with credit and go down with debit.
        
        Amortization is often deduced directly from the intangible asset account.
        PP&E i property plant and equipment.

        Straight line Depreciation:
            Depreciation expense = (Original cost - Salvage Value)/Useful Life 
            Salvage value: what the asset is going to be worth after that period.

        there is never cash involved in these adjustments.

Financial statements and closing entries:
    the next two steps in accouting cycle are Adjusted Trial balance and preparing finacial statements.

    Adjusted Trial Balance:
        summarize balances in each account after adjusting entries.
        used to make financial statmennts

    Preparation of Financial Statements:
        Prepare income statment first.
        Then use Net income to update Retained Earnings and to prepare Balance sheet.
        Finally complete the Statement of Cash Flows and Statement of stockholders Equity.

    Income statement Format:
        The income statement generally has the following format:
                 
                                REvenue (or Sales)
                            -   Cost of Goods sold
                            ------------------------
                                Gross Profit 
                            -   Operating (SG&A = selling general and adminstrative) Expense 
                            ------------------------
                                Operating Income 
                            -   Interest, Gains, and Losses
                            -------------------------------
                                Pre-Tax Income
                            -   Income tax Expense
                            -------------------------
                                Net Income 

        most investors use Operating income to judge the performanc of the company, as unusual gains and expenses come after that.

    Balance Sheet Format:
        Assets are listed first in the following order:
            -Current assets(benefits within next year)
                ordered by liquidity
                    cash, Account Recievable inventory prepaid asssets 
            - Non current assets
        Then come the liabilities 
            ordered by liquidity
        
        Then stockholders equity:
            contributed
            retained earnings
        
    last step is the closing entries: this is to get you started for next cycle.

    Accouting Cycle:
        Start new period ->  Analyse transactions -> Journalize and Post -> Unadjusted Trial Balance -> Adjusting Entries -> Adjusted Trial Balance -> Financial statements -> Closing Entries.

    closing entries; involve closing temporary Accounts:
        Revenue and expense accounts, closed out to retainted earnings at the end of the period.
        Accumulate the effects of transactions for a period of time only.
    
    permanent accounts:
        accumulate the effects of transactions over the entire life of business.
        balance sheet accounts, assets,liabilites, contributed capital, retained earnings.
    closing entries are transactions that zero out temporary accounts at the end of accouting period.
        reveneue and expense account blaances are transferred to retained earnings.
    then we do post closing trial balance:
        summarize balances of permanent accounts after closing entires.
        all revenue and expense accounts have zero balance.

    now we start the next fiscal year.

Cash Flows:
    statements of cash flows:
        report changes in cash due to operating investing and financing activiites over a period of time.

    statement of cash flow format:
        net cash from operating activities
        net cash from investing activities
        net cash from financing activiites 
        ----------------------------------
        net change in cash balance.

        non cash transactions are disclosed at the bottom of the statement.

        operating activities:
            transactions related to providing goods and services to customers, and to paying expenses realted to generating revenue that is income statement activities.
            this is analogous to income statment.

            cash inflows, and cash outflows.
            they exclude depreciationa dn amortization, gains or losses.

        investing activitiets:
            acquiring or disposal of long term assets.
            cash outflow would be acquiring.
            an asset that you hold for more than a year is treated as an asset other wise opearting activity: it is a rule of thumb.

        financing activity:
            related to owners or creditors.
            issue new stocks or borrow money is inflow.
            paying dividents, pruchase stock, paying debt is outflow.
        

        a startup would usually have negative opearting cash flow, negative investing cash flow, and postitive fiancial cash flow. net would be 0.
         as you raise money and invest in infrastructure.

        over time opeating cash flow becomes postive and you start making money.
        but you still raise money and invest money in growing.

        when you mature, operating income is high you keep investing and finance cash flow is negative as you start paying dividents and paying loans.


    Cash flow statments:
        indirect method for operating cashflows and direct method for rest of the two.

        direct method is simple, just down cash flows and where they are coming from, and where they are going.
        income is little hard.





