MIT 

LECTURE 1:
    what is psychology and economics, or behavioural economics?
        it is a field of academic research that studies the joint influences of psychological and economic factors on behaviour.
        it is an attempt to take insights from biology to make economic models more realistic, hence more prediticive so we can come up with better policies.
    
    old assumptions:
        people know their utility functions and they try to optimize it and they don't make mistakes in doing so.
        people are driven by self interest. They don't care about what other people think about them.
        people prefer stable preferences.
        risk aversion: people are risk averse. They prefer low risk.
        people are perfect information processors.
        people have no taste for beliefs or information, they only use information to make better decisions. It doesn't effect their utility function.
        are perfectly rational.
        maximize utility.

    when you look at world these assumptions could be violated:
        people tend to prefer the information that is in their favour.
        transitivity of choices is not always well defined.
        it is tough to update belief as in bayesian systems.
        people care about what other people think.
        people don't always want more information, eg thirteen from house not wanting to know the result if she has huntington.
        memory is limited.
        people give charity.
        attention is limited.

    the world is full of cognitive biases, people do not behave perfectly.
    we can model these deviations, based on improved assumptions.
    key principles of standard economics still apply.
    we just focus on important deviations.

    very often prices are the most important aspect of choice, morals etc also play a small part.
    
lecture 2: Overview II 
    How do economists think about human behaviour?
        1. goal driven individual behaviour: constrained optimization.
            - utility function: what makes people happy.
        risk averse: avoiding risk.
        2. Beliefs: what do people believe about their environment?
        3. Choice/Decision making: how do people use the above to make decisions?

    psychological insights can improve our understanding of each of these components.

    social preferences:
        how do people think about themselves and others.
        Much of classical economics assumes that people are selfish.
        charity is like 2% of US GDP, hence people do care about others.
        people can do stuff to feel good about themselves.
        you could do things for to maintain a social image, that you care about what other people think of you.
        or you might do stuff because, because doing it is necessary to survive.
        you might do stuff just to get something in retain, perhaps a favour.
        or you just don't like inequality in society.
    people's desire are more than their actual behaviour.
    it is called present bias: people prefer better things now, instead of in future. And people don't care if you give it at 52 weeks later or 54 weeks later but two weeks today make huge difference.
        Hence there is emphases on present.
    Time preference:
        people are impatient.
        people are realtively patient for far-off decisions, like wanting to diet in the future. They may say yes to do it in future.
        people are less patient for immediately relaavent decsions like an immediate sacrifice of diet.
        it is like, people want gains in present and losses in future, because you overweight present utility function.

    There is a lot of over confidence in the world in many situations. You end up failing.
    women in india are under confident. You end of not trying.
    people do think in terms of percentages, if you are buying things of lakhs you don't care for a few thousands here and there, but if it is same amount but half the price of item, you think more about money.
    hence people do think in relative terms instead of absolute very often.
    firms do think about psychology of consumer.

Lecture 3: Time preferences
    the choices between the present and the future.
    like savings and consumption.
    you see the utility in different points in time and decide accordingly.
    every such choice would have cost and benefits.
    like going to gym.
    purchasing an expensive software.
    deactivating a social media account.
    for all kind like investment, borrowing, sleep, college degree, dating.
    people are really impatient in short run, and really patient in long run, they want it today than tommorow but they dont mind 1 more day than 300 days.
    credit card is like 20% interest rate for a year, because people are impatient and they want money now.
    discount factor tends to be small in short run and high in long run.
    people don't always follow plans they make for future.
    like going to gym from monday, or dieting from monday.
    preferences can change in future.
    you can help yourelf by controlling your temptation.
    people are too confident that they got self control.
    self control devices might help.

Lecture 4: Time preference
    people are more impatient between today and tommorow than between tommorow and day after tommorow.
    one that time comes, i change my plans based on my circumstances called dynamic inconsistency.
    you can restrict your choices for your future self, for him to behave as you want.
    the goal of learning time preference is to deviate from this model. As this behaviour is irrational.
    procastination effects total welfare in a bad way.
    better be sophisticated than naive.
    naive person things, he will follow the plan, and sophistacated person thinks he can't follow so he does things in present.

Lecture 5: 
    you can use commitment devices, it might not work though.
    things often take longer than the time we plan.
    don't overestimate yourself.
    don't set early deadlines.

Lecture 6:
    
Lecture 7:
    choices involving risk.
    risk aversion: tendency to avoid risk, to avoid losses.
    insurance industry exists to help people reduce risk..
    people look for ways to reduce risk.
    risk reduction has its price.
    people are not risk averse in all situations eg gambling, etc 
    you can compute expected utility of all situations.
    a risk averse person rejects all fair gambles.
    the utility function is concave.

Lecture 8:

Lecture 9:
Lecture 10:
Lecture 14:
Lecture 22:
    