maker/taker: taker is an order that trades at a market price. "maker" is an order that trades at a limited price.
order of makers goes to order book, takers fill orders made by makers.
makers are incentivized to provide liquidty, so they have lower ffes for their orders.
order of takers doesn't go on order book.
spot market: real time market, the trading there is called spot trading.




udemy course 1:
    cryptocurrency: digital money, where crypto refers to cryptography. your private key is your seed phrase. when you generate a wallet you get a seed phrase of words, it is your private key. your public key is your wallet address. 
    every other coin than bitcoin is called an altcoin.
    2140 is when all bitcoin will be under circulation.
    mining: solving puzzles and more bitcoins are put into circulation (proof of work)
    blockchain: digital record of transactions.
    gas: transaction fee. if network is busy the gas fee is more. the gas fee goes to miners.
    ethereum allows you to build on top of it.
    stable coins: value is 1 dollar. there is no volatility. you but your profit here, when the market is down.
    market cap: total value of all supply. price X supply 
    volume: how much is being traded.
    volatility: how up and down it is going.
    investing/HODL : long term buying, hold on for dear life.
    trading: day(for a day eg when it gets listed on exchange) /short term(a few weeks)/ swing trading (buying at low and selling at high and again do the same) 
    TA: studying the pattern by traders.
    breakdown: going below support
    breakout: going above resistance
    fundamental anlysis: how good is that crypto.
    bull market: people are buying.
    bear market: people are selling.
    retail investors: normal investors.
    institutional investors: banks and companies eg tesla,paypal bought bitcoin.
    wallets: hot wallet, readily available, soft wallet, like in your hard drive etc, cold wallet is hard to hack.
    centralized exchanges are like binance and it is run by a company. you pay fee for each trasactions.
    decentrilized exchange eg uniswap, there is no ceo etc.
    IDO: initial dex offering, buying crypto before it goes to market. eg ASTRO was there 
    launchpad: where you buy it.
    metaverse: virtual reality.
    DEFI: decentrilized finance.
    apy: annual percentage yield.
    NFT: non fungible tokens, it is a collectable item.
    memecoins: it is a joke coin.
    utility: what is it used for.

section 2: 
    coinmarketcap.com for crypto research eg market cap, volume etc 
    you also get relavant news.
    you also get ranking of top 100 based on market cap.

    large caps: above 10 billion market cap and more 
    mid cap: above 250 million

    you can go into each crypo there as well.
    you can see course code.
    whitepaper shows the original vision of the coin.
    circulating supply means current supply.
    liquidity=volume 
    coingecko is same as coinmarketcap 

    exchange types:
        spot and DEX 
            spot exchange: they hold your token.
            DEX: you hold your token.
        spot means buying at current price.
        derivatives means buying etc at future prices. you can go long or go short.
        DEX are decentrilized exchanges. you buy and sell directly from your wallet.
    fiat gateways: coinbase/binance/kraken/kucoin 
        from normal money to fiat money.
        binance supports 46 different kinds of fiat 
        you select your currency to pay with for fiat money.
        you can also sell fiat for normal money.
    
    14715 different crypto currencies on binance.

    centralized exchanges: coinbase/binance/gate/ftx 
        a third party website, you typically store in native wallet of theirs and they are custodians of your crypto.
    try alts in spot market in binance to not always get busd first.
    gate.io is where you can buy newer crypto currencies.
    binance and coinbase only take reputable coins.
    decentrilized exchanges: uniswap for eth based /pancakeswap for binance smartchains/ radium for solana based. you can also buy in paypal etc.
        you hold in your own wallet. And you can swap your crypto for other.
        metamask is a wallet for various kinds of crypo currencies on different networks.
    

    most of coins value is speculative, which means it is not backed by any evidence.
    usually new coins come with promise that it will solve some problem.
    if people lose believe then they sell.
    rekt <> wreked
    cryptos can crash suddenly and for no obvious reasons.
    if bitcoin does well everyone does well and if bitcoin crushes everything crushes.
    markets are driven by greed and fear.
    with greed prices go up, and with fear prices go down.
    most people buy high and sell low.
    you can't always win, the trick is to win more times than you lose.

    multipliers: 
        eg sell at 100x or 2x etc based on what you want.
        it is hard for bitcoin to double than any new crypto.
        look for next big potential crypto.
        but lower the value, greater the risk.
        greater risk with low volume coins.
        you can wait till 100x 
    what effects price:
        events/rumours - launch/updates/listings/parternships.
            listings can be pumped and dumped.
        blue chip crypto <> ones with large market capital.
        marketiing, relavance, liquidity, and investor confidence.
        market forces bull/bear market and bitcoin /alt season.
        utlity and benefits: dirves demand and adoption.
        narratives/trending : Defi,Nft,Scaling,Meme coins 
        technical/chart analysis : predicting moves, traders make move collectively.
        milestones: Testnet means they are just testing.
                    Mainnet is the final version.
                    Listing when they are being listed.
                    product launch 

                    for these check roadmaps of these coins on their websites.
                
        influencers on social media, promoting coins.
        celebrity endorsements: i.e elon musk.
        venture capitalists/institutional buyers. as money tend to follow smart money, more people invest there.
        network effect: a lot of crypto depends on ethereum.
        scams, lies, deslistings,closures, rug pulls(swipe all the money, malecious code, team takes all the money).

    DYOR:do your own research.
        don't invest blindly.
        telegram groups, twitter etc.
        coindesk news etc.
        google etc 
        coinanalysis etc 
        don't gamble.
        check if that crypto solves a problem.

    emotions:
        don't fall in love with an invested project.
        avoid fear of missing out FOMO (buying high), greed and fear.
        look at the behaviour of other investors to figure out what is going on.
        stick to a plan (buy price and a sell price )
        anticipate the highs, don't chase the highs.
    
    market cycles:
        bull and bear markets follow cycles.
        last from 18 months to 2 years.
        euphoria and despair indicate TOP and Bottom, ideally you enter at bottom. and exit at euphoria.
        bull market is accelerated by media and new investments.
        bear market accelerated by fear from both.
        new investors buy at the top.
        bull market lasts longer than bear market.
        bull trap, bear trap and brief bull or bear market.

        don't sell in despair and don't buy in euphoria.
        glassnode.com is cool to see the market cycles.
    
    alt coin <> alternative coin to bitcon.
    whales are top 1 % 
    alt coins and bit coin follow each other, whales would sell bitcoin at euphoria and then move to alt coins and they would go up.

    money flow in crypto: fiat to bitcoin to large caps to mid caps to low caps to bitcoin to fiat.
    tether is a stable coin. in increasing order of risks.
    bitcoin is digital gold: it would appreciate over time.
    alt coin go up immediately after bitcoin.
    after alt coins they freeze in fiat.
    going all in: going all in on a single coin.

    ICO : initial coin offering, before it is listed.
    USD : united states dollar.
    coinmarketcap.com is also cool.
    smart money: money of whales, people who know stuff, not the retail investors.
    for low cap/ new projects check if there is any smart money and follow.
    smart money follows smart money.
    be the early investor.
    going all in can result in life changing wealth.

    researching the coin:
        to find hidden value of a crypto currency.
        start with coingecko or coinmarketcap 
        check trading volume.
        check market cap and see how much is trading volume, usually it should be 20% or more.
        telegram is cool, they would have official group.
        you can search in that group like google.
        check how good has it been doing.
        what has been trading volume in histoy.
        what is the coin about.
        check if that cryto is backed by venture capitalists,use cypherhunter.com for that.
        check their medium page.
        check youtubers.
        make sure the volume is consistent.

    narratives: the stories/ the emerging technologies / the trends.
        eg bitcoin : digital cash, decentrilized  
         ethereum : ecosystem, building it provided technology and it enables for other to build on top of block chain.
         ICOs: new industries/ utility tokens / scaling  new coins coming that can be used for particular platforms, there are usually ethereum based.
         DeFi and NFTs (2020 onwards) nfs are non fungible/exchangable tokens that can be collected.
         Defi: it enables people to be their own banks, you have savings and you have yields, you offer loans etc yield kinda starts at 10%, yield is so huge.Defi based crypto are blowing now.
         Defi is usually on ethereum blockchain, hence gas/transaction fee has increased.

         there are 8000 crypto to buy, buy ones that fit the narratives.

    long term investments:
        go for venture backed investments.
            they have more confidence.Although there is no guarantee.
            whale investor network (money attracts money)
            connection: exchanges / top tier partners /influencers 
            expertise and marketiing.
            it mitigates risk.
        
            top venture capitalists:
                pantera, ngc, fenbushi, gbg capital, gbic, arrinton, andressen, polychain, coinbase ventures, binance labs 
            mid 10 vcs:
                kenetic alamedda research, moonwhale, 3 commas, CMS, AU21, LD capital, paradigm, genesis.
            low vs:
                master ventures hashed, vendetta moonrock, woodstock,morningstar, spartk digital capital.

            you can find their vcs from the website of the website of the crypto currency under early supporters and parternships.
            or go to cypherhunter 

    take profits:
            objective: protection/hedging agaisnt volatility.
            take out what you have invested after  3-5x so even in worse you don't lose anything.
            sell all at 20x to 100x.
            even banks are planning to sell when it goes to the peak.
            smart money gets in at the bottom and then the institutional investors like banks and then they sell at the top.
            use people's overenthusiasm./ too good to be true, and sell.
            sell into bitcoin or usdt to freeze your profit.
            it is one of the hardest part. once you make profit, don't look back.
            don't be disappointed even if it looks even higher.
            sometimes all you need is a big win.

section 3: understanding cryptocurrency
    what is cryptocurrency:
        it is digital currency and it is independent of banks.
        all transactions happen through something called a blockchain.
        stored on digital ledger, owned by private key.
        distributed network acts as consensus.
        decentrilization removes 3rd parties.
        there is less trust on a centralized entities.

        supplies:
            mined and minted supplies.
            minting is deciding maximum supply and you can produce it on demand.
        Crypto is treated as Asset class and spendable(converted) and less like a currency.

    what is bitcoin:
        original and main cryptocurrency.
        thought up in 2009, when the original whitepaper was published.
        it is called digital gold as it appreciates
        Main buying cryptocurrency for alt coins.
        even ethereum is an altcoin.
        most likely to be adopted by mainstream.
        most consistent growth.

    what is ethereum:
        Main Alt coin
        currency of value and buying alts and ICOS 
        early stage crypto projects use ethereum blockchain to build their system.
        it is not just a currency, it is a software platform, you can create software on top of it.
        can create DApps<> decentrilized applications using ethereum.
        smart contracts: a software that runs on it own.
        crowdfunding platform for ICO's 
        with bitcoin you can't create a software.
    
    what are altcoins:
        Any cryptocurrency other than bitcoin.
        can be bought with btc,eth,usdt, etc 
        higher volatility and multipliers
        own communities/fanbase and features.

    why is crypto hot:
        freedom: no need for third party.
        volatility/multipliers: making significants gains.
            come for gains stay for technologies
        innovation: banking tech and currency 
        eary and new like early dotcom boom 
            only 1% is in it.
    the risks:
        volatility: significant and fast ups and downs.
        unreliable and unpredicable prices 
        security infrastructure: there are scams all the time.
        but the blockchain is immutable.
        gambling: percieved speculative value 

        people enter the crypto market bullish.

    sats: satoshis, 1 bitcoin is 100 million sats 

    coins vs tokens:
        every bitcoin is a coin. 
        ethos is a token.
        token is more like for a specific utility.
        eg to pay for games for for network.
        whereas coins is more like making transfer of payments.

section 3:
    what is blockchain:
        the technology under the cryptocurrency technology.
        it is a growing list of records(blocks) linked by Hash cryptography.
        immutable digital ledger of data (permanent records)
        Data= Financial transactions, software transactions and documents.
        decentrilized: processed by a P2P network of nodes.
        consensus protocol: speed and security, they verify the transactions.
        new block is created when previous block block is done and the chain carries on.

    what is SHA256:
        it is bitcoin hashing algorithm.
        secure hash algorithm: SHA 256 bits in memory.
        unique hash to each block (digital fingerprint)
        Block: Number,Nonce,Data,Prev. Hash,Present Hash 
        Miners solve Nonce to create current hash 
        computational power protects network, when you solve the nonce.
        for blockchain to get hacked, 51% network has to attack.

        data is just a bunch of transactions.
        you put computational power to compute current hash by trying to compute hash.
        you idea is to figure out the Nonce that creates current hash with 0000 in the begining.

section 5:
    investestment setup:
        fiat <> feeyet
        exchange is not the best place to store as there are always hacks.
        go to coinmarketcap.com to check which exchange has it.
        you can deposit and withdraw to other addresses.
        order books could just have orders to make you panic.
        don't sell at the dip.

    DeX: decentrilized exchanges, no need for kyc.
        eg uniswap.com for ethereum based.
            you need a metamask wallet.
            the gas fee could be high.
        another one is pancakeswap. for binance smart chain.
            you would need metamask wallet for this also. you can trade bnb etc 
            pancakeswap is cheaper.

section6: lauchpads
    initially we had ICO's before they entered the exchanges.
    these days we have launhpads.
    there are different for different crypto environments.
    it is very important to get into these markets at the earliest.
    IDO, intial dex offering, same as ICO.
    there are various launchpads: eg polkastarter for polker eco system , bsc launchpad etc

    launchpads are decentrilized way for projects to get funds.
    most top project launch via launchpads= blue chip lauchpads 
    retail investors invest at lowest price (private) like crypto VC's 

    top lauchpads:
        VelasPad: it has guraranteed allocation.
        Gamezone: it is guraranteed.
        Seedify, this is guraranteed.
        DaoMaker, lottery based allocation.
        polkastarter, lottery based allocation.

    try buying from all launchpad for a coin.
    BlueZilla launchpads are also good.

    but high initial capital: pay to play. 500 to 500k 
    in bear market they don't do good. lack of demand hence selloff.
    high demand so it is lottery based.
    greater DYOR to vet opportunities.
    KYC is required, restricted countries cannot pariticipate.

    launchpad process to invest in IDO:
        buy launchpad tokens for a tier.
        and stake your tokens first.
        at launch, use USDT or BUSD to invest in IDO, from metamask wallet.
        it is first come first served.
        hence project launchs on DEX hence called IDO 
        you would get 10% airdrop first.
        you can just buy in DEX instead of going for lauchpad whole thing.
        BSCPAD is also cool.
        when a crypto currency is launched, prices go high for first few hours.
        it is very competitive.
        flipping: selling as soon as on exchange.
        cypherhunter for details related to IDO's.
        go to BSCpad.com to see stuff.
        it is the best way to make nx.
        with ones improvement and impressive VC's etc 
        relavant, trends launches.
        top marketing.
        launched on polkastarter/bscpad.
section 7: metaverse related crypto tokens.
    metaverse: virtual reality, with VR glasses + Augumented reality: virtual + real .
        NFT's as avatars, 
        assets like computers within metaverse. or even digital land.
        eg metawars, wilderworld, star atlas, gamezone, axie infinity.
        







