Yale :
lecture 1:
    before finance theory people thought, a lay man can do as good as any other person in financial markets, but they were wrong as people with Knowledge were making a lot of money, hence the finance theory. They thought markets are efficent and there is no room for advantage for anyone.

    collateral<> leverage, eg 30:1 what you use to convince for borrow.
    prices reflect the opinion.
    endow: provide.
    mortgage: you lend some money, they put the collateral, if they don't pay the money, you take the collateral.
    collusion: deceitful agreement or secret cooperation betwen two or more parties.
    Finance is one of the highly paid profession's in the world.
    wallstreet : umbrella term to describe the financial markets and the companies that trade publicly on exchanges throughout the U.S.
    wallstreet is synonymous to financial markets of the United States.
    Wall Street is a street located in the lower Manhattan of New York City.It is headquarters of some of the largest U.S brokerages and investment banks and New York Stock Exchange.



MIT:

session 1: Introduction  and Course Overview

    mortgage backed securities: an institution buying a lot of mortgages(paper) bundle them together and sell as securities to investors.
    subprime mortgages: giving mortgage to people with low credit score.
    predatory lending practises: unfair and abusive loan terms on borrowers,high fees, high interest rates.
    bubble: rapid increase in price driven by irrational Decisons.
    james simons, warren buffet, jack welch are some good examples of successes from the spectrum.
    
    The only reason the Finance Industry exists is because of Time and Risks. If you eliminate time and risk, there is no finance market.
    Finance is a term for management, creation, and study of money and investments. Specifically, it deals with the questions of how an individual, company or government acquires money called capital in the context of a business and how they spend or invest that money.
    financial analysis: finding price for things.
    Mathematics + Money = Finance 
    Finance is a systematic study of Financial transactions of Money.
    Mathematics can be used to make money.
    james simons was a math professor (renaisance technologies = hedge funds) his hedge fund is the single most successful hedgefund in the history.
    
    hedge fund: to hedge is to protect, fund is a pool of money. They take bets on both bullish and bearish market, they take money from clients and invest in financial market/stock market/crypto/bonds. They take high level of risk. They are not as regulated as other, and a regualar person cannot invest in them. They take a lot of leverage(loans). Mutual funds are highly regulated and they invest public money, and hedge funds only take from sophisticated investors eg more income than 200k. And mutual funds disclose what they invested in but not the hedgefunds. They act first. Hedge funds are more sophisticated in their stragegies. Mutual funds are very often Long equity funds. mutual funds cannot invest more than 5% in same stock, but hedgefunds are not restricted. Mutual funds just beat the market by a few percent.
    
    bond: a loan given to a company by an investor, a company or govt. would issue bonds and in return pay interest. Govt frequently issue bonds to start new projects etc  eg annual interest of 5% which  in bond world is called coupon rate. each year they pay 5% to the investor and at the end of the time you get your principal back.

    warren buffet would read income statments etc and with high school maths, he became a billionare, by looking at valuation.

    All Business Activities Reduce to Two Functions:
        Valuation of assets (real/financial,tangible/intangible)
            this is more challenging part of it.
        Management of assets (acquiring/selling)
            which of two possibilites is more valuable
    
    This is true for any kind of business.
    what is valuable is a hard question. Water is necessary but invaluable,Diamonds are unnecessary but valuable.
    you cannot manage what you cannot measure.
    Valuation is the starting point for management.
    once value is established, management is easier.

    Objectives + Valuation => Decisions
        pick the decisions that are most valuable to your objectives.

    Valuation is generally independent of Objectives.

    the value of the box in his experiment was 45 dollars,as that was the highest bid.Now that number could be used for Analysis.
    Knowing nothing about what was inside the box,we established the value.That is remarkable.
    The information effects the valuation.
    The lack of information can reduce or increase the value of an asset.

    in this course we come up with Analysis ways to find the value,once the valuable is known,the management becomes easier.
    if you want to get rid of something and you sell it at 66% discount,the deal might be amazing for you even though the value of that asset was higher,hence objectives matter as well.
    
    Accounting is the first step of Financial Analysis.
        flow: rate of change of assets.
        stock: the level of assets. How much you have, stock is x and flow is its first derivative.

        Balance sheet: snapshot of financial status quo (stock)
        income statement: rate of change of the status quo (flow)
        Financial status <> Balance sheet 
        Financial decisions <> income statement

        income statment tells you how much money is company making per unit time.

        Balance sheet contains data about Assets eg Cash,Capital,intangibles and liabilities like Equity and Debt
        income statment contains  Sources of Funds = Uses of Funds typically on quarterly bases.
        this is what warren buffet uses to decide things.
        liability is like owing.

    Corporate Financial Decisions:
        Cash raised from investors.(Selling financial assets)
        Cash invested in real assets (tangible and intangible)
        Cash generated by operations
        Cash reinvested 
        Cash returned to investors (debt payments,dividents, etc )

        Financial Manager is the person between Corporate Operations and individual and institutional investors.

        And Management is about dealing with one or few of these Decisons.
        Objective is to maximize the valuation of owners.

        even your life can conform to this Framework.

    without time and risk Finance is just micro-economics. just supply and demand thing.
    Time: cashflows now are different from cashflows later,Time flows in one direction,how to model temporal differences.
    Risk: under perfect certainty,finance theory is complete,Risk creates significant challenges,how should we model the unknown.
    we use historical data and Mathematics(probability and statistics).althought challenges can overwhelm the maths.

    six fundamental principles of Finance: these are approximation for underlying truths.
        there is no such thing as a free lunch.
        given other things equal,individuals prefer more money to less (non-satiation),prefer money now to later(impatience),prefer to avoid risk(risk aversion)
        All Agents Act To further their own self-interest.
        financial markets prices shift to equalize supply and demand.
        financial markets are highly adaptive and competitive
        risk sharing and friction are central to financial innovation.

    course structure:
        Introduction
        valuation
        Risk
        Corporate finance
        putting it all together.
mathematics is not a spectator sport.
    securities<> bonds/shares/ etc tradeable financial insaturments eud to raise capital in public and private market. equity: which provide ownership rights to holder; debt: loans.
    SIP: systematic investment plan, like mutual funds.
    EFT: exchange traded fund, pooled investment like mutual funds.
    fiat money: money that is not backed by any commodity such as gold or silver.
    futures: financial contract, that obliges parties to buy or sell an asset at a predetermined future date and price.

    
Session 2: Present Value Relation I 

    in his experiment the bigger box with book got sold for 60 dollars and smaller one at 45 dollars,so sometimes the size of the package does matter.
    Retail value: the price retailers might ask for the item.
    Mortgage: lend money at interest in exchange for taking title of the debtor's property, with the condition that the conveyance of title becomes void upon the payment of the debt.
    A loan is the sum of money borrowed from a financial institution to meet various goals or requirements. It may be collateral-free or secured.Mortgage refers to an immovable property that is used as collateral to avail a loan.

    Asset: Business entity, Property, plant, and equipment, Patents,R&D, Stocks ,bonds,options,..,Knowledge,reputation,opportunities etc.
    From a Business Perspective, An Asset Is A Sequence of current and  future Cashflows. It doesn't involove path cashflows, the asset is different at different points in time. Every Asset can be represented as a sequence of cashflows. It is not the summation of cashflows because of time value of money. reputation is an asset, the additional cash flow that you get because of reputation is its cash flow.
        Asset = {CF1,CF2,CF3,CF4,....}
        A startup is an Asset.
    The algorithms are assets.
    You can buy a Patent,Sell a Patent,License a Patent,Transfer a Patent.
    Coke formula is a Trade secret,it is not a Patent.
    Patent is a legal agreement,that if you tell me everything i need to know about it,you can have exclusive right to make it for certain period of time,say 17 years.And if anyone wants to use it,they have to pay you.
    Patent process creates Assets out of ideas.The other way is to keep it a secret,and Coke has been doing it well.
    There are lots of different Assets.
    With Patent you can go investors and ask for money with confidence whereas with secret you cannot do it.
    hence even intangibles can be Asset.

    An Asset is different at different points in Time.
        E.g Apple Stock is different from what it was 5 years Ago.
    
    Having an Asset is same as having a Cashflow.
    Assets are the molecules of Finance Theory and cashflows are electrons and protons of it.
    An Asset with all negative cashflows is a liability.
    An Asset is the Sequence of cashflows from Present,it is not the summation of them.
    reputation is an asset as people choose you so additional cash flow becomes of it becomes an asset.
    you can have common cashflow for multiple assets.
    The reputation of a building or a gym is an asset.

    an asset is simple,but the hard part is Cashflows.
    value of assets change over time and cash flow of tommorow will no longer be part of it day after tommorow.

    Valuing An Asset requires valuing a sequence of cashflow.
    sequence of cashflows are the basic building blocks of finance.
    Value of Asset at t=Value at t (CFt,CFt+1,CFt+2,....)
        one example of Vt is value in any market,althought one market can be better than another.
    at high level value of an asset is at how much would someone buy it,which in itself is a cashflow with only one data point.

    time and uncertainty play major role in valuing an asset.
    the value operator : Vt
    in case of uncertainty we use approximations.
    
    it is called discount rate as it is a number less than 1, and dollar now is more valuable than dollar tommorow because of impatience.

    like you convert two currencies into common currency and then compare,otherwise we cannot. Same thing applies to cashflows on different dates,you need a common date. numeraire is the currency which you convert everything else into.
    Vt is sum of value of all cashflows in common currency.
    Net present value: V0(CF0,CF1,...) and if there is initial investment,then CF0<0,rest of CF can be postive or negative. It is for asset as a whole with initial investments as well.
    net present value is basically V0.
    you get exchange rates for currencies from the market,and same for the value of things over time,you also get it from market.

    discount factor/exchange rate: a number you multiply future values to get present value,usually less than 1.
    people want their money now than later, it is impatience, and if you want them to wait, you have to give them incentives.
    not just inflation,deflation can also occur.
    inflation and time value of money are not completely one and the same thing.
    once you figure out valuation,management is trivial.
    friction in currency convertion: means you don't get to convert from one currency to another for free.
    supply and demand : more people want 1 dollar today than tommorow,hence dollar today is worth more than 1 dollar tommorow.
    r : interest rate/growth rate/opportunity cost.
        you get r from market.And market might give you multiple r's.
        with r you can move back and forth in time.
        it is inverse of discount factor.
    perfect market: A market, where byeyrs and sellers are numerous and well informed that monopoly is absent and makret prices cannot be manipulated.
    rank projects with net present value of take ones with highest postive.

session 3: Present value Relations II 

    profit in one currency would still be profitable in another as long as exchange rate is same.
    english: firewall: burn a region around fire so fire doesn't spread.
    don't use economics to answer social and political quesitions and vice versa.
    take projects that have positive Net Present Value,don't take ones that have negative NVP.
    value of an asset is a number that you generate from a sequence of cashflows.
    with higher interest rates money now is more valuable, and the interest rate comes from open market.
    with proper valuation, management decisions are get easier, although there might be other factors as well.
    sell things with negative nvp.

    the perpetuity: it is a simple and cute cash flow.
        perpetuity pays constant cashflow C forever.
        PV=C/1+r  + C/(1+r)^2 + ..... till infinity ,and it starts with first year.
        PV = C/r 
        
        if C is compounded at g percent every year. r>g,if r=g then we get infinite.
            PV=C/(r-g)
    The market price is not completely perfect, and market interest rates are highly volatile, the job of hte mathematics here is mostly to figure out r for different years from the market activity.

    the Annuity: simple application of V0 
        PV=C/(1+r) +.... + C/(1+r)^T 
        PV=C/r(1-(1/(1+r)^T))
        Annuity is a security that pays fixed amount for finite period of time,and then it stops paying. eg a bond or an autoloan or a Mortgage.
        in Mortgage you take money and pay back say annually for n years to cover it with interest.
    
    banks give interest at APR= annual percent rate(stated rate without compounding),effective annual rate(it includes the effects of compounding) of 10%. your money is compounded daily or months basis.as giving 5% for 6 months could be compounded to get more at the end of the year than 10%.
    banks are forced to tell you if it is APR or not during the loan, EAR = effect annual rate.
    hence if you get 10% and you get your money after 6 months,you don't get 5% .they compound smartly such that if compounded for whole year you get 10%.

session 4: Present value Relations III 
    leverage ratio:
        leverage of 5:1 means four parts came from bank and 1 from me during buying(it is usually 20%). if the price of house drops by 10% bank doesn't care as you have to pay in whole and you bear the loss.but if the price of houses increase you get the whole profit.
        hence 20:1 leverage is high risky if prices go up and down very often.

    inflation:
        change in real purchasing power of $1 over time irrespective of time value of money.
        it is different from time-value of money.
        inflation measures purchasing power of money now vs later. it is possible that a dollar buys you more next year.
        time value of money is about impatience.
        there is nominal wealth and real wealth, real wealth considers inflation.
    creditor is one who gives loan and investor is as in partnership.
    credit score: how good you are as a borrower.
    apropos: with reference to/ or appropriate with respect to the situation.
    mark to market: find price in market.
    fixed income securities:
        fixed income securities are financial claims with promised cashflows of known fixed amoun t apaid at fixed dates, unlike a stock, they have fixed income. They are the simplest securities.

        classfication:
            treasury securites:
                U.S treasury secruites (bills,notes, bonds)     
            Corporate securities:
                commerical paper 
                Corporate bonds.
            etc 
            bond market debt is how much they owe people with bonds.
        the size of equity market is dwarfed by the size of fixed income securities market.
        Mortgage related bonds were the fastest growing.
        these are not traded a lot, there is no organanised exchange, there are bonds are being traded though. Hence it makes them less liquid.
        for example, banks would issue bonds at certain interest rates, and then use that money to give mortgages at higher interest rates.
        other kind of bonds are asset backed bonds like same for credit card.
        the idea of buying a bond is as good as lending your money.
        
        market participants:
            issuers: they provide the paper with fixed interest rate.
                government, corporations, states, etc 
            intermediaries: the middle man 
                primary dealers, investment banks, etc 
            investors:
                government, pension funds, insurance companies, commericial banks, mutual funds, hedge funds, individuals.
        to value an assset, draw a timeline first and put cashflows in it. and then find net present value NPV.
        there are some risks though.
        coupon bonds: they pay in intervals.
        STRIPS/pure discount bond/zero coupon bond / is a bond that pays all at once at maturity.
        by looking at bond prices, you can get an idea of future like what market thinks of discount rates.
        bond <> IOU
        5% 3 year bond means 5% every year and principal at the end.
        you find price from market and value by valuation. And if there is a difference, then there is an opportunity to make money.
        to default means to not be able to pay back.
        credit risk: how do you know i am still gonna be around after all those years, that the borrower may not be able to pay back the debt.
        you can infer interest rates from price of bonds, which is important to make money.
        you can try to predict future from prices.
        you can create new financial intruments on your own.

lecture 5:
    interest rates can differ over time, as there is market for borrowing where the interest rate is determined.
    interest rates have enormous information about the future.
        example from the prices of one year bond and two year bond, you can figure out what would be interst rates for future years.
        you can draw it and figure out how future interest rates are going to look like.
            it is called yield curve/ term structure of interest rates.
            although it doesn't mean the market will 100% follow this curve.
            implicit forcast of 1 year is called one year forward rates. It is a forecast of future spot rate, it doesn't need to be right, but that is how it appears to be.
            it is markets best guess of futures spot rate.

        forward transaction: transaction to be done in future, that we agree on today.

        eg if you realize that this bond would pay 5% for year 1 and 7% for year2 which is higher than market rate for both years which is 5% for both years, then you can borrow money at 5% rate and buy the bonds for two years and make money. or it the average could be 7% of which first year is 5% and second year is 9% hence for the second year you make 9%. And if for second year rate is more than 9% then you are screwed.
    there is spot rate and forward rate.
    coupon bonds:
        intermediate payments in addition to final principal payments.
        yield= single interest rate as good as all of them at the end.

session 6:
    law of one price: two identical cashflows must have the same price. In other words to assets of same value should have same price.
        as otherwise, i can buy the cheap one and sell the expensive one, hence i would generate money out of nothing.
        Arbitrage/free lunch: buying and selling same thing in two different markets and take advantage of price difference.
        you can take advantage of it.
        there are people at firms whose job is to look for Arbitrage called Arbitrage desk.
        short sell: you borrow and sell the securities.
        if you can't short sell, you can't take advantage of Arbitrage.
        short sell: for a stock could pressure it to go down as people think it would go down.
    take advantage of Arbitrage and mispricings.
    the fastest person does it.
    you can have fixed income Arbitrage as well, solving system of linear equations to see that.

session 7:
    in corporate bonds, there is a chance that you don't get paid. there is risk.
    bonds are not for high returns. They are used as safe heaven by people.
    a default is when bond issuer fails to pay promised payments (interest+principal)
    portfolio: collection of securites.
    the longer the period of bond, the higher the chances of default.
    diversification reduces the risks and returns, the expected value is near the original value. And this is what pension funds etc look for.
        you have to make sure, different securities are not corelated in this case.

session 8: equities 
    equity: an ownership in corporate.
    cashflows: dividents(new growing companies don't give dividents), price appreciation of that share.
        dividents can be cash or stock.
    bondholders of a company only has claim to what the value of their bond is and they are first in line with respect to claim on company, whereas the equity holders get everything else(residual claiment).
    limited liability: you can only lose what you put in stocks.
        you can go bankrupt in 8 companies and win on 9th, that is the power of limited liability.
    you get money from public markets, and give them voting rights for them to have confidence on how the company is run. Going public is the best.
    short sell: if you know that the price of that stock should be less than what it is, then you can short, and drive it down to where it belonged, and it is very important to let people have the option to short sell. It is very important aspect of market.

    how venture capitals think: they want to invest in your company, and have some shares, and when your company goes public, they sell the shares.

    a company has to give dividents at some point in time, otherwise it's stock is worthless.
    you can find present value of stocks from the expected dividents it would pay.

session 9: forward and futures contracts I 
    fear can paralyze you when it comes to your decision making abilities.
    forward contract:
        reduce future fluctuations, where both parties want to eliminate the uncertainities, eg as currency exchange rates keep on changing, so if you are selling to foreign country, you want to eliminate this fluctuation.

        so we have tools like: forwards, futures, options, swaps, insurance, diversification.
        they could be used for hedging (protecting) or for speculations (some think this is evil)

        derivatives are efficent tools for risk management.
        derivatives are financial weapons of mass destruction _ warren buffet.

            the truth is actually both, like uranium 238.
        derivative: a contract that derivs its value from the peformance of an underlying entity.
        hedging: unsring against price movements.

    forwards and futures:
        A contract to exchange an asset in the future at a specified price and time.
        all you do today is to agree that you would do that transaction.
        you agree on price and date. Once you sign the document, you are under obligation to do the transaction, there is no option to go way from contract, Unless you declare bankrupty.
        whereas with options the buyer has the right, but not the obligation to do it, thats why it is called future.
    forward contract:
        commitment to purchase at a future date at a given price agreed upon today.
        the price fixed now for future is called the forward price.
        the buyer of hte underlying is said to be "long" the forward, the counterparty is said to be short.
        the value of contract at the time it is signed is zero as otherwise you won't enter the contract.
        companies love derivatives. It gives them some idea and info for calculations. They love eliminating the uncertainities.
        forward price is decided based on expectations, it can be lower or higher than current price, or same. eg for six months from now.
        forward prices like yield curve gives you information what the market is expecting what would happen in future: COOL.
        forward contracts don't trade on exchanges, they are customized for the parties, and they are traded over counter, and no money changes hands until maturity.

        why buy futures if you expect price to go up, why not just buy the entity itself and after all you buying will also help in incresing the price:
            the answer is, if you buy gold now, then you have to store it, same for oil etc whereas in forward contracts that is not the case, even if you buy the forward contract for slightly higher price.
            there are two choices to buy: forward market or spot market.
            secondly if you can't afford it now, you can still enter a forward contract.
            the forward contract may have postive NPV from ones point of view, but objectively it cannot as otherwise one can trade the contract and make profit.
            with forward contracts, there are only two parties, the buyer and the seller.
            forward contracts are usually for physical things that one has to buy.
            there is a significant risk that the contract defaults, depending on how good of a company counter party is.
            forward contracts are illiquid: you cannot go out of it, and there is counterparty risk if they cannot do it at maturity.
            it is very hard to sell forward contract.
            eg if you have a forward agreement to buy soya at 100 dollars and prices drop to 20 now your compeitition can sell products at lower rate, so you might get out of the forward contract and you would get sued. And you chose between being sued and running out of business, you might think lets see where the law suit goes, or you settle outside.
            forward contracts may be backed by collateral, and if you break the contract i get to keep the collateral where money could be the collateral. But then if the loses are more than collateral you might walk out of deal anyway. Hence the size of collateral could be really very big to make sure nothing fishy happens.
            there are contracts between producers and suppliers and they are not governed by anyone. And thats where futures comes into play.
    Futures contract:
        A futures contract is an exchange-traded,standardized,forward-like. The price is determined on exchange. It is marked to market daily(initially the value of that contract is 0, but over time based on spot prices the value of that contract fluctuates (if price increases by 2 dollars per unit then the value of that contract for the seller is 2 dollars per unit, and you can now that that contract at 2$ to anyone ).). Hence once you buy or sell the futures, over time its price reflects in the exchange and you can sell or buy it. And everyday you can give money if sign new contract because situation has changed, that is what is called mark to market, hence every single day the contract reflects its market value.Hence there is no longer counterparty risks.
        And from the point of view of money exchange, it is as good as doing only one contract at the beginning but with no counterparty risk.
        Gains and losses are settled daily.
        But what if you don't show up tommorow:
            there is an intermediaries between the two parties, hence the market is highly liquid. You deal with the intermediary.
        tick size: the smallest change in price.
        initial margin is how much you put as collateral for each unit for that day.
        you also have to keep some maintenance margin also just in case you lose more. and if you don't put that money, they close your contract.
        hence you don't even need to have money to invest in futures, you just need the enough for initial and maintenance margin.

Session 10: Froward and Futures contracts || and options I 
    the notional size: the value of future that you say that you will buy in future. But what you get is profits and loses.
    after the day, the broker would deduct the loses from your account and put in the account of the winner and it keeps happening over a over, and you always settle everyday. You are out if you don't have enough margins.
    Futures is a neat innovation over Forwards, it reduces risks, and you can sell futures contract, if you think you will lose.

    what determines Forward and Futures Prices:
        just like other valuation p(1+r)^T 

    margin call: when you account is about to default.
    options:
        they gives you options, you don't have to participate in final transaction, it gives you right but not obligation to do it.
        
        Derivative security: Claim whose payoff is a function of Another's Security, it is derivative as opposed to primary.

        options:
            call option: a holder of this paper can buy,exercise on or before maturity date. 
            puts option: the same but for sell.
            American : can exercise early 
            European : can only exercise on specific date.
            strike is the price at which you sell or buy it.

            all insurance contracts are a form of put option.
            but you can sell options, but you cannot sell insurance.
            unlike a futures contract, an option is not worthless on day zero, as you pay for it.

session 11: options II
    option premium: value of option that you pay.
    call and put of same Equity at a given price is cool, it means you make profit if prices go up or down and you won't make profit if it stays same which is amazing. but you have to be careful how much  option  premium is.
    in times of volatility you can be rich.
    you can also do reverse, like make money if prices are stable.
    in fact you can generate any kind of function you want for your payoffs: which is mind blowing, like sigmoid functions.
    check the option prices to see what market thinks of volatility.
    everything in theory is an option, even the stocks, since bond holders are first in line.
    

session 12: options III
     RISK AND RETURN:


session 13:
    if there is a pattern and people know the pattern, the pattern changes, the quicker you find the pattern the faster it changes and if there are a lot of people trying to find the pattern, you get randomness.
    hence efficient market is random.
    own idea: see what is going around, and figure out the consequences and find things that you can trade based on consequences.
    efficient market: no predictability.
    usually markets are random.
    efficent market: market where it is hard to make profit with certainity, it is not predictible, and it is a good market to trade in.
    it market is predictible, it is either rigged, or there aren't enough people in the market.
    more risk gives more expected return.
    small stocks seem to do better than large stocks.
    stocks tend to move together.

    portfolio:
        combination of securities.
        you can also short.
        you can have long and short positions in portfolio to have balance.
        portfolio should be diversed.
        eg if IT is going to do good, have some stocks from different companies from It.
        we want high return and low risk.
        mean is return and standard deviation is risk.
        when you add a new stock to your portfolio, you check how much is it adding to return and how much to risk.
        just map all stocks on risk and return in 2D graph.

Lecture 14:
    the means are easy to compute in portfolio theory but the risk/std isn't linear and that is the real deal.
    sometimes you get the more return and less risk when you look at the graph, which is amazing.

Lecture 15:
    basically draw graph for all possible portfolio's choose the best one.









Financial markets yale:

Lecture 1:
    finance is a pillar of civilized society.
    you sponser ventures, you incentivise people to do certain things.
    we will talk about banking, insurance, securities, derivatives, etc.
    finance is an engineering that works with people.
    to be rich you need to do things at large scale, and for that you need to know finance.
    you need to give your money away if you are rich after you turn 55, it is your moral obligation.
    things can turn bad, and we need regulators.
    portfolio theory assumes independence and a financial crash, breaks that assumption and whole portfolio goes down.
    rich people get to take risk and if they fail, govt. bails them out to avoid financial crash.

Lecture 2:
    probability theory is fundamental to finance.
    bubble: an event with which people are very excited about.
    markets can collpase, corporations can collapse.
    capital gain: price t+1 - price t 
    return: percentage increase in value.
    geometric mean: multiply n terms and then take nth root.
    you can take return from mulitple times and take arithmetic mean or geometric mean to make sense of it.
    geometric mean would make more sense as if one of the return is -100% then you have lost everything so arithmetic mean doesn't mean anything after that.
    these are all measures fo central tendency.
    covariance is a measure of how two different random varialbes are moving together.
        positive both both change in same direction and negative if opposite, and 0 if no relation.
    corelation is scaled covariance.
    Value at Risk VaT: like 5% chance that we will lose 10 million this year.
    Law of large numbers: with large sample, it would be closer to average. uncertainty vanishes with large sample, it is the idea behind insurance.
    but it needs independence of events.
    var(x1+x2)=var(x1)+var(x2) if x1, and x2 are independent.
    usually things go south becuase we assume these to be independent and they are not independent.
    VaR came in 1987 for companies.
    CoVaR: came later 
    usually people split stocks when prices increase too much.
    you have to be a risk taker to make it big.
    random shows to stock market are cauchy distributed, they are both bell shaped, cauchy has more chances for outliers.
    independence fails during crashes, as everything goes down.

Lecture 3:
    average of independent variables of any distribution is normal.
    financial inventions:
        options, futures, swaps, electronic trading.
    if risks are independent then we can pool them and they go away.
    risk management: returns with certainity.
    
    invention in finance:
        shares and going public is an important invention.
        corporation: comes form latin word corpus which means body.
            limited liability corporation, you as a share holder are not liable if everything fails.
            now anybody can start a compnay with limited liability.
            began in 1811 in new york.
            it made new york the financial capital of US, as capitilists had no liabilities.
            it is like a lottery ticket, it was exciting.
        townships in china: you go to mayor of your town you raise money form town and you share profit with town.

        inflation indexation:
            there is inflation risk, becuase of uncertainity of prices.
            indexed bond: bond would pay you so and so and it would be increased if there is inflation.
                1780's it was introduced in masschuttesetts
            not so popular anymore.
        
        swap:
            contract between two parties to swap cash flows at certain rates.
            hugely used.
        
Lecture 4:
	Stock market was just a game with limited liability, hence people were very interested, some would short and some would go long.
	the geometric mean for us stock is  7 percent after even inflation considered.
	equity premium puzzle: stocks seem to be doing better than other things like bonds etc, and the reason is risk.
	stocks almost seem like the best investment.
	markowitz in 1952: thought of whole thing is a statistics problem, he said giiven the data and we can compute mean, variance, covariance etc of different stocks, what is the best portfolio we can get. Nobody had thought about it his way. It is a well defined problem. The assumption being, we don't know which company would do good in future. Thats how portfolio analysis came into existence.
	before that all people knew was, don't put all your eggs in one basket. But nobody said how to diversify.
	let rf be the riskless interest rate: like bonds etc or borrow at that rate.
	let some stock has average return of 20% and standard deviation of 40%
	you draw a graph between sigma which is standard deviation of your portfolio and R is expected return of your portfolio.
	eg 5% with 0 risk hence 0 standard deviation.
	you can take loan for 5% and buy the stocks and you can do that.
		this is called leverage.
		there is no optimal portfolio, it is just about tradeoffs between risk and return.
		in the hyperbola the point fo changing direction and above is where you have choice below it everything is suboptiomal.
		the more the number of stocks in a portfolio higher the hyperbola moves, which is amazing and optimal.
		the hyperbola is called efficient portfolio frontier.
		and it also moves to left with diversification.
	even governments need to have diversified portfolios.
	you don't have to choose the point with least risk you can talk some risk on frontier and have higher returns.
	mutual fund theorem: optimal is the one that which tangent meets the hyprbola.
	this is called capital asset pricing model.
	
LECTURE 5:
	insurance: risk mangement industry.
	risk pooling: a lot of risky stuff when put together almost does what is average.
	more like law of large numbers.
	moral hazard: people doing things on purpose to get insurance.
	Sometimes, insurances fail, people of too many incidences like during 2008.

LECTURE 7:
	efficient markets: a theory that is half truth.
	that markets efficiently incorporate all the information, that is there.
	that is you cannot beat the market, market has all the information.
	but it is not completely true.
	some people have beaten the market, and some say they just got lucky.
	sharp ratio: it corrects for risk taking, you can get any return you want at the expense of high risk.
	sharp ratio shows, how much risk you took to have that return.
	some people would take a huge risk and move to brazil if it fails.
	you can manipulate the sharp ratio, with a few tricks.
	fine print: legal documents.
	
	efficient market hypthesis:
		stock market is like a voting machine, and its price is the best judgement.
		i. e smartest people keep using stock market until it reaches a point where it cannot be abused.
		hence you can't beat the market.
		there is no prediction you can make.
		hence market is gambling.
		the advantage of being even 5 minutes ahead is enormous, that has created an industry of people who are faster than the rest of the word.
		now a company makes an announcement, and it is all over the internet.
		people analyze quick and decide, where it would go somewhere for a few minutes, and then it would stablize again.
		everything happens within a few minutes, you can't be 24 hours late.
		you gotta be fast.
		own idea: keep an eye on everything, and see if there is an anamoly.
		markets are almost efficent all the time, that you can't see anyway to make the money.
		efficient market: security prices accurately respresent information, and it reacts to new information quickly. That doesn't mean there aren't dumb and smart people.
		but apparently sometimes asset prices go way out of line.
		sometimes people find a counter in research but they say look again maybe we missed something as a result that aspect of research doesn't get publised.
		Technial analysis: trying to predict price based on charts.
				eg resistance level: eg trouble crossing a 1000, as that is a milestone.
				some say all you need is the charts and trends to figure out where it would go.
				many studies show that TA doesn't work.
				own idea:assume that people do TA and take some decision based on that, what would happen as a consequence is where you put money.
				there is some truth to it, but overall it cannot be used to make money.
	if price only change predictably when there is news, then for the rest of the time it would move random walkly, and on average it would stay where it is.
	there are no patterns, people get false sense that there is a pattern, but in reality random walk can generate the similar pattern.
	You can get fooled by randomness, and you think there is a pattern.
	the point being if i generate a random pattern, you would find trends in it.
	and random walk looks a lot like stock market.
	
LECTURE 8: Theory of Debt
	everything is half true.
	interest rate is the intersetion of supply and demand curve for savings.
	people have savings supply and banks have demand for money.
	
LECTURE 9: corporate stocks
	for a company to be big, it has to be on stock market.
	equity=shares, equity means each share is equal.
	shareholders vote for board of directors, each share is one vote.
	you would have annual shareholders meeting where sharehoulders meet.
	there is one CEO chosen form the board usually.
	there is also the chair of the board.
	board members have duty to shareholders only. You are representative of public. These are usually smart people, with no shares in company.
	in a board meeting they can fire the CEO.
	if you buy enough shares, you might get to be a board member.
	there are for profit and non profit corporation.
	universities are usually the non profit.
		here profits go back to yale, and there are no shareholders.
	some people serve on multiple boards of different companies.
	the number of shares you own are meaningless if you don't know how many shares are there.
	board members can decide to pay dividents.
	the purpose of company is to pay divident.
	young company usually don't pay divident.
	they don't have to pay dividents.
	when they pay out divident the share price usually falls, as they paid out the money they had.
	or because people get rid of stocks after they get the divident.
	you can issue more shares.
	or your compnay can usse bonds or take loans.
	if you company has debt they would pay dividents only after debt is paid back.
	companies don't usually issue mor shares to expand, they usually save money for it.
	dilution: issuing more shares, your ownership decrease but the value of your compnay increases hence value of your shares increase.
	there are common stock and preffered stock.
	preffered stock: they don't have vote, but they get the divident first.
	common is more important than preffered.
	once you start paying dividents, you can't stop, as people woudl feel something is wrong.
	usually board of directors decide to have constant percent of profit as dividents.
	a company stock price cannot be below its stockholders equity, as otherwise someone would buy all the shares, and sell the whole stockholders equity like buiildings and gain profit. hence market cap must always be more than assets - liabilities 
	a company can buy stocks for other companies.
	somtimes it could be 5 times more.

Lecture 10: Real Estate.
	mortgage: mortuus vadium: meaning death pledge.
		people would mortgage their property or their slaves a thousand years ago.
	corporates are taxed separately from individual, so to avoid taxing two times, people often don't call themselves corporate, hence call it a partnership, and law allows you to declare yourself as parntnership in a few fields.
	government has rules for what is partnership, as it wants you to pay tax twice.
	down payment: your part that you didn't borrow to buy a house.
	there is also mortgage insurance available.
	there are organizations who would buy mortgages, and banks would sell so they can have money that they don't have right now, eg fannie may would buy in US, same was freddie mac.
	as banks can't have money somewhere for decades.
	then these companies would be sold to public as other securities like bonds.
	In 2008 both freddie and fanny went bankrupt, although these companies were initially founded by govt but then they went private, byt govt saved them.
	mortgage securitization: converting mortage into security that you sell to people.
	dadd frank act: regulations to make sure shit doesn't go real again.
	
LECTURE 11: BEHAVIOURAL FINANCE AND PSYCHOLOGY
	companies care about their image, so they don't try to con as it wouldn't be good in the long run.
	people are not completely selfish.
	people love praise, and be praiseworthy.
	people can very conscious of little changes about their wealth but after a point it doesn't matter if  you gain more or if you lose more.
	even though probability of something is so low, we think it would still happen.
	People are often over confident especially women.
	Ceo's are not geniuses.
	Fooled by randomness: you feel that you understand randomness.
	You tend to believe in info that confirms your belief.
	Eg. People not selling cause they feel it will go up and they ignore the evidence that it will go up.
	Manupulating stocks is a felony.


LECTURE 12: REGULATIONS
    to make sure people are not being exploited.
    to make sure there are not monopolies.
    usually government bails out corporates whose failure can result in disruption, it is like am insurance.
    Respect the regulators, seek a job there.
    There are regulations within an organizations then there are ones among organizations and then there are ones by local govt to national to international.
    board of directors could be thought as board of regulators.
    Tunelling: cheating stock holders and putting money in your own pocket, like selling an asset to your brother at low price,  or paying too much to your brother in law for some contract, or paying too high salaries, insider trading: buying or selling based on information that people don't have buying shares if you price will go up and sell if you know it goes down.
    hence board has duty of care and duty of loyalty to shareholders.
    

youtube:
    financial institutions:
        depository institutions:
            accept deposits 
            eg commercial bank: it is a corporation, it has stock holders etc, it is for profit organisation. they offer pretty much everything.
            Another example would be credit union,it is smaller than commercial banks, they are usually non-profit. its goal is to serve its members,it doesn't have shareholders,it has board members etc.
        non depository institution:
            life insurance companies.
                you pay premium and you die and you get money.
            investment companies.
                eg mutual fund: it takes money from a lot of sources and invests in a lot of things.
            brokerage companies/firms
                you hire and adivsor and he helps you buy stocks etc.
            credit card companies. like short term loans.
            Mortgage companies:
                that deals with Mortgages.
                you obtain a loan to buy a home,and they access your ability to pay.
            Finance company.
                a company that provides loans.
financial institutions provide money related services.
people and companies use these institution for variety of uses.
governments intervene when a financial institution goes bankrupt.
the health of financial institutions directly impacts the economy.

Trading: buying and selling shares. you don't care about what company does,you just analyse the share trend,called technical analysis.
investment: you keep it for long time. Done based on Financial statment of company, past performance, future growths, called fundamental analysis.

stocks/shares/equities mean pretty much the same thing.
in stock market,seller submits price at which they are willing to sell,buyers submit price to buy at.when the lowest selling price meets the highest buying price,a deal is done.this whole thing is automated.
don't put all your eggs in one basket.
you need a broker to trade in earier days it was a person, and there might be a commision per buy.
money loses money over time because of inflation.
index fund: putting investment in index say (top 100 in US) best for beginners.
it is hard to beat index fund.
if you don't have index fund,invest in index fund.
put money say for 5 years.
in the long term,the stock market always goes up.
in term long investing,you always make money.
don't put money that you might need in next 3 to five years.
value of stock depends on supply and demand,high demand means price goes up.
a public company has to declare finance statments 4 times a year.
a company usually has a few billion shares,say 7 billion for microsoft.2 billion for meta.
outstanding shares are shares that investors trade with,the shares that company keeps is called treasury shares and together are called issued shares.
headline stock price of the share you see is the latest price that a share was sold at.
exchanges calculate the value of share by finding the value at which the maximum number of shares are being transactions.
in primary market IPO happens and then the shares are traded in secondary market.


Topics in Mathematics with Applications in Finance:

lecture 1:
    securitized loans are bond.
    banks: commercial banks, and investment banks. Investment banks are more focused on raising capital and investing it, commerical banks are more like normal banks.
    is financial market a zero sum game: 
        investors: have money, need return
        borrowers: need money, have risks 
        trade between lender and borrower is still the main driving force.
    
    broker is just a middle man, he makes money out of commission, but a dealer is the one who would fight for price.
    government always has a impact on market through the policies.

    S&P index is an index fund.
    trading types:
        hedge trading: safe trading.
        eg interest rates are higher in austrailia than in japan, so people borrow in japan and put in a bank in austrailia. the difference is about 4.5%. but not a lot do it, because what if yen becomes stronger than austrailian dollar, and if everybody plays it, it won't be effective.

        market maker: eg stocks etc where we don't know where it would be.
        people are more likely to sell when they profit then when they are in loses.
        for people loses are acceptable.

lecture 2: linear algebra
    you can put stock prices in matrix say each row is for a company and each column is a date.
    eigen vectors
        AV=lambda V 
        A-lambda I  determinant has to be zero 
        it is just taking a vector which when gets tranformaed gets only scaled.
