mit microeconomics
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
lecture 1

what is microeconomics?
    study of how individuals and firms make decisions in the world of scarcity (can't have everything for free ).
    it is a series of constrainted optimization exercises. (everyone wants to have, what is optimal for them)
    the course is about tradeoffs/ opportunity cost.
    for every action, you could have done something else that is called the opportunity cost. Opportunity cost is the next best thing you could have done.
    economics is called dismal science as there is always opportunity cost/tradeoff/ nothing is free .

    supply and demand model:
    ------------------------
        we have models that are not always true but almost everytime, with simple assumptions. These are models and not laws, these are relationships between variables under simple assumptions. We want to capture the phenomena around the world in models, such that we can teach it.

        "all models are wrong but some are useful" _somebody 

        water diamond paradox: adam smith 
            water is necessary for life and diamond isn't yet water is free and diamond is expensive.
            the answer is we demand both but the supply of water is infinite and diamonds are limited.
        
        levels in econmic concepts:
            intuitive level.
            graphical level.
            mathematical level.

        the supply curve is from the point of view of firms: as the price goes up, firms want to produce more.
        market equillibrium: where supply and demand meet.
        positive vs normative analysis: how things are vs how things should be.
        
        issues?

            market failure:
                fraud, incorrect information(about products).
            equity concern = fairness: 
                we could have a market where only rich people would get kidney's.
            behavioural economics:
                people make mistakes, they don't make optimal decisions always.
            black markets:
                market for illegal entities.
        
        how freely should economy function ?
            capitilistic economy: firms and consumers decide what to produce, with a few restrictions from government. you let the dice roll.
            capitilistic economy resulted in america becoming rich country, but it resulted in america becoming highly unequal country. Most of the wealth is with top 1 %.
            command economy: government decides what to produce and who will produce what. This is what soviet union had. Even shirts etc were decided by government. It resulted in corruption as party members got it first, in theory it meant equality but not in practise. There are too many opportunity for corruption. 
            There is invisible hand within capitilistic economy. Self Interest of people and firms result in best for society (most stuff gets produced and consumed that people want )
            the supply curve is about quantity supplied, it is not about one firm. The quantity is produced by an industry of different depending on price of that good at market.

lecture 2: preferences of utility curve : consumer theory
    demand curve comes from how consumers make choices. It is from the point of view of consumers.
    supply curve comes from how producers make choices. It is from the point of view of producers.

    demand curve:
        utility maximination:
            -preferences. (what people want)
            -buget constraints. (what they can afford)
            our job is to maximize what people want from what budget they have.
        
        
        preference assumptions:
            completeness: you have preferences given a set of things.(two things can have same preference)
            transitivity: if you prefer A to B and B to C then you prefer A to C.
            non satiation: more is better.

        indifference curves (graphical representation of preferences): curve which represent preferences which contain choices that you are indiffernet to .They are always having negative slope like 1/x (from non staiation, as if slope was higher that means on indfference curve both are increasing and that should not be on indfference curve,on indifference curve if one thing is more then other has to be less, otherwise it wouldn't be an indifference curve,hence slope has to be always negative.). And they don't cross, as otherwise violate transitivity (by transitivity then both curves have to be indifferent, but another curve is above one which voilates non satiation.). And only one curve for a given set of constraints(completeness). you always want upper indifference curve (as if it has equal on x somewhere it would have more y than below curve eg if you want 3 pizzas, upper curve would give you more cookies than lower.) (non satiation). there is only one indfference curve through each bundle.

        utility function: mathematical function of preference/indifference curves. eg pizza vs burger.
            utility can be used to rank choices(ordinal), they don't mean anything from their value.
            marginal utility is derivative of utility: or the utility of next unit with respect to what you are differeniating with respect to. It is amazing. utility is synonymous to happiness. the marginal utilty decreases with more and more consumption.Hence as you consume more of a good, the next one from it won't make you as happier as previous one did. note: we are studying consumer behaviour, where consumer is not going to sell, he is going to eat it himself, that is what we are studying.
            this is derivate of whole utility function and derivative is always positive as next unit will always make you happier.
            eg U=sqrt(pizza quantity X Burger quanity) 
                this function satisfies both. and we use this function a lot as it seems to agree with what we want. In this course we consider it true 
            marginal rate of substitution: first derivative of indifference curve(where utility is constant).
                as it tells you what you are willing to substitute of one for another.
                it is always decreasing.
            the more you have of a thing, the less you want next of it. And less of other thing you are willing to substitute.
            indifference curves can be linear, but then cannot be concave to origin. as it violates law of diminishing rate of marginal utility(would be increasing). secondly as we want more of a good you would want to give up more of other good, which is not true.
        
                for addiction, the curve just shifts outwords everyday, the law still holds true, the second cigarette is not as good as first, but the next day you want the first cigarette more hence the curve shifts outwards.

                when you enter a mcdonalds and you see first cup for 100 and 2 for 180 only. It is because they understand you want one cup and you won't buy 2 becuase of diminishing marginal utility, so to mimic your behaviour, they also decrease the prices accordingly.
                
                by doing this they shift the demand curve to the right.
                although the cost of production does't change. profit still increase.

lecture 3: Budget constraints and constrained choices.
    budget constraint
        more is better but you are limited by your budget.
        assumption in this course budget=income
            median household in usa has 400 dollars in bank,hence they earn during week and spend it.
        
        lets say you can buy either pizza or cookies from your income. And you devote your income to these two in some combination.

        it is a linear curve with constant negative slope.
        the slope of the line is negtive of price ratio.
        the slope is called marginal rate of transformation (MRT) how you tranform one to another by choosing one over another. Just another way of looking at opportunity cost.
    consumer would maximize the utility subject to budget constraint.
    how graphically the consumer would want highest indifference curve that it could reach.
    you choose the indifference curve to which you budget constraint curve is tangent to, and you can't afford anything else on that curve though.

    to solve for values:
        find tangent to indifference curve by differeniating, and make it equal to slope of budget constraint. and solve for the values.
    
    whole course is about marginal benefits vs marginal cost. Because it decides it to do.

    poverty line: minimum money needed to survive in US for a year eg 14000 dollars. A program SNAP give you debit card that allows you to buy food if you are too poor, you can only buy food with it. They are forcing you to spend that money only on food, then constraints the choice. it is better than being poor but it is not optimal from what they think they could have done with that money. And the government does so becuase we assume that people know best, with what they can do with money. But in reality they might buy drugs.

    paternalistic: we don't think they can use resources optimally.
    also there is a pov where tax payers care about poor behind fed, and not people having money.

    emperical econmics: testing theories of economics in real world.

lecture 4: Demand curves and income/substitution effects
    Deriving demand curves:
        if you increase prices, the tangent curve changes hence the indifference curve that is optimal changes and mathematically it has now less demand for that good whose price increased.
        prices don't change utility curves.
        as the price goes up, you want less of this good.
    
    what determines the shape of demand curve:
        the elasticity of demand.
        e=(deltaQ/q)/(deltaP/P) percentage change in quanity/ percentage change in price  
        e is <=0
        if e=0 it means perfectly inelastic D 
            no matter the price you still want the same quanity: eg insulin, used to control sugar level in blood. it happens when there is no substitute.
        perfectly elastic means e= negative infinity:   where there is perfect substitute, eg some fast food, different brands of gum. price never changes, if you charge a little bit more you would lose everything or if you charge little less, you will have whole market even of competitions, price doesn't change.
        in reality we have curves in between, the more the subsitutes,the more elastic they are.

    from indifference curve and budget curve you can tell that income only shifts the budget curve paralley hence shifting the demand curve while the elasticity of demand curve remains same.

    income shifts: icnome elastcity.
        gamma= deltaq/q/deltaI/I  
        if gamm>0 : normal goods
            luxuries: gamma >1 eg branded clothes,jewellery is canonical example  
            necessitites: gamma<1  eg food etc 
        if gamma<0 we call them inferior goods.
            eg fast food, when you don't have money.
        
    effects of price changes:
        substitution effect:
            the change in quanity of goods, with respect to price while holding utility constant.
            it is always negative. you always move to the left.
        income effect:
            change in quanity of goods with respect to income, holding prices constant. it just shifts cost curve down.
    if good is inferior, then substitution and income effect work against each other. as if you are poorer you want more of it even if it's price increased. price increment is as good as being poorer.
    these two are happening simultaneously, we just decome to understand it.
    you can theoretically get upward sloping demand curve if income effect dominate substitute effect.
    it is called a giffen good. it is hard to happen in reality. it is only for inferior goods. eg 10 apples and 5 orange, but now oranges become expensive so you can't afford 10 apples and 5 oranges so you choose 8 apples 6 oranges,for your budget.
lecture 5:
    so far we were talking about consumer theory.
    now we will talk about production theory.
    this is about firms, here firms get to decide how much to produce.
    producer have a production function, like consumers have utility function. Where the goal is to maximize the profits (revenue - cost)
    one way to do it is to minimize the cost by doing thing efficiently.
    q=f(labor,capital) production function.
    little q is for firm, and Q is for market 
    unlike utils,q is more meaniningfull for its value.
    labor is workers, capital is machines, land, buildings etc 

    variable inputs like working hours, fixed inputs are like machines, building that are hard to change.
    in short run, labor are variable, capital is constant. In long run everything is variable.

    short run productions: labor is variable, capital is fixed
    ----------------------------------------------------------
        hence firms only decision is, how many workers to hire.
        marginal product of labor: delta q/ delta l 
            assume it diminishing => it says the next worker helps less than earlier worker, although not true everytime. But since capital is fixed, it remains true, eg 1 person digging the whole, vs 3 people or 4 people digging the whole using the same shovel.

    long run production: everything is variable.
        both workers and machines are what you have to choose.
        just like pizza vs cookies.
        q= sqrt(l*k) k is capital.
        you graph the indifference curves which are here called isoquants (combination of labor and capital that produce the same output.)
        they look same as indfference curves. they remain same as indfference cuves.

        for perfectly substitutable inputs 
            q= x+y if you can trade one x for one y 
            they give linear isoquants.
        perfectly non-substitutable nputs.
            q=min(x,y) leontieff production function.
                eg left shoe and right shoe, computer and users.
        the slope of isoquant = marginal rate of technical substitution (MRTS)

        RETURNS TO SCALE:
            WHAT HAPPENS TO PROUDUCTION IF YOU INCREASE OR DECREASE EACH INPUT BY SAME FACTOR.
            constant returns to scale, double inputs and output doubles.
            increasing returns to scale, leads to more than double the output.
                eg becuase of specialization
            decreasing returns to scale, leads to less than double the output.
                eg difficulty of management of workers, when there are more workers.
            
            it must decrease eventually as otherwise you would own the whole market,if it keeps increasing.
        
        productivity:
            thomas malthus: labor and land are needed for production of food, but land is limited and the marginal product of labor would diminish so much as we get more and more labour that, in future we would see cycles of starvation when populations increase and some people wouldn't get the job. But it didn't happen, world is more populated and more fed.

            he missed productivity/Innovation.
            hence as you get more productive you produce more, eg even though land is fixed, but with fertilizers, and other technologies we produce more and more.

            famine is not becuase of lack of food it is becuase of lack of distribution, there has been no famine in a democratic nation. it it is corrpt we would have famine, there is already enough food.

            this is true all around the world.
            henry ford started the mass production of cars, by specialization.

            tata nano 2500 dollars.

            hence innovation is happening all the time.
            hence over time q is also a function of productivity.

            hence standard of living in a country is determined by productivity.
            if a country is more productive then you are living good.
            you need to be innovative to make it big. that way you also dominate the market.

            there has been massive shift in productivity growth in US.
                47-73 , 2.5% every year, every year working same you get 2.5% more.
                73-95, now it is about 1% 
                95-05, again 2.5% after IT boom
                05- ,again 1% now 
                you multiply now q by productivity.
            K depends on savings, where K is capital.

            turns out, computer was supposed to be next industrial revolution, it didn't happen that much.

            US is focused on more productivity whereas europe is more now into leisure time becuase of productivity.

            productivity has increased but income hasn't increased that much, becuase it all goes to the rich.

lecture 6: costs 
    continuing producer theory to derive supply curve.

    cost curve:
        cost vs quantity of production.
    for short run:
        q= sqrt(l x k)
        total cost = fixed cost(capital) + variable cost 
        cost = capital x price of capital(rental rate ) + labor x wage
        you can substiute q in place of l and  k is constant.

        c= k+mq*q hence c increases quadratically.
        marginal cost = change of cost with change in  quanity. cost of producing next unit.
        average cost=  cost/quanity 

         
        since q is sqrt hence q and c curve would be parabola.

        hence firms prefer to pay higher wages to highly productive employees as marginal cost is higher for another employee. as marginal cost = delta c / delta q = w delta L/ delta q = w / marginal product of labour . hence it  would be higher if higher the wage as wage is in numerator and lower if worker is productive  as it is in denomenator. hence firms pay high to high skilled proudtive workers.

    long run cost curve: now K is no longer fixed, in above case the K was fixed.
        we no longer only care about labor.
        we want to find efficient combination of L and K.
        Isocost curves are like budget curves: series of them as we don't know which one to pick
        c=wl+rk 
        linear with decreasing slope.
            given C it tells you what combination of w and l can you get.
            now optimal solution would be tangency isocost to isoquant.
            that is the combination we want.
            that is the combination when you are producing the most given the cost.
        cool idea: check how much a machine would do or how much a man would and compare and decide what to chooose.
        cost function would be function between cost and quanity, for optimal combination differentiate cost with respect to quanity and put equal to price and you get optimal q .
        as the wages increase hence firms prefer machines.
        if the rental rate of machines increase hence firms prefer people.
        if wages increase and you still want to produce the same quantity,hence the ratio of machines would increase in your company, like in consumer theory you prefer another good over this one.
        thats why people lose jobs when wages rise, they get replaced by machines.

        long run expansion path:
            usually you double the cost the prodution would double.
            the cost curve just shifts out.
            although it doesn't have to be linear.
                it could be the case that the higher the cost less productive the capital or labor. it could be logarthimic.
            cost function now is c as a function of q where c line would be tangent to isoquants, it coudl be logarthimic or linear curve etc.
            this is your cost curve in long run.
        in the long run, you get to choose hence better than short run in terms of productivity.

lecture 7: competition I
    fixed vs sunk costs
    sunk costs are long run fixed costs, something that once made can never ever be changed.
    eg your college med school fee is sunk cost, you cannot undo it.
    getting an office is fixed cost, you can change them over long run.

    sunk cost fallacy: if you want to sell your tickets that you don't want anymore, you cannot think in terms of what you had bought it for, that is gone, that is sunk cost, you now have to think in terms of how much would you pay for those tickets now if offered, and if someone is offering you more, just sell them.

    it doesn't matter how much you bought it for, now all that matters is how much would you buy it for now if you had to.

    perfect competition:
    --------------------
        we so far were talking about the cost side, now we need to talk about the revenue side.
        the market determines how much a firm produces.

        perfect competition: many selling and competition for a homogenous good.
        monopoly: one firm does it.
        oligopoly: several but not as good as perfect competition.

        in perfect competition: producers have no control over price, producers are price takers.
            conditions:
                identical products (from consumers perspective)
                full information about prices (consumers know what every firm is charging)
                low trasactions cost (search cost for prices and products)
            competition is almost never perfect.

            firm vs market demand:
                Q(p) is demand from market 
                q(p) is demand from that firm 
                q(p)= Q(p) - s , where s is whatever everyone is selling.
            
            lower price a little bit and everyone buys from you. make prices a little bit higher and nobody buys from you.

            short run profit maximization:
                capital is fixed and no firm entry or exit.
                what is profit:
                    revenue - cost ,in accouting.
                    in econmics we consider the opportunity cost as well.
                    how much money you have - how much money you could have(eg doing the job)
                maximination of profits:
                    to maximize profits.
                        revenue - cost 
                    differentiate profit with respect to q and we get
                        price = marginal cost.
                        you keep on producing  until cost of producing new is same as price.
                        now you know, how much to produce.
                        on average price per unit = price - average cost per unit.
                        now also contain tax.
                        profit = q x p - cost - q x tax 
                        optimal value remains the same as the tax is paid after selling, and from profit it is paid.
                        thats why we say we make decisions on marinal cost.


lecture 8: competition II 
    shut down 
    ---------
        you produce 0, although fixed cost remains same.
        eg if price drops to less than cost.
            pq < variable cost, you don't care about fixed cost at that point.
        or if price is less than average variable cost.

        supply curve is relation between price and supply.
        since p= Marginal cost for firm, hence marginal cost is the supply curve and as p increases,MC increases hence supply increases with p.

        market supply curve is always more elastic than firm supply curve.

    short run equillibrium:
        each firm has capital k and a production function q=f(k,l) we also have the cost function and 
        we find optimal values.
    
    long run competition:
        now you allow entry and exit of firms.
        there is no fixed cost, you only worry about if you are making money or losing to shut down.
        profits meaning entering, and loss means exit.
        hence in the long run the profit has to be zero : competitive equallibrium, as otherwise people would keep on entering and we need equillibrium. in other words marginal cost would be equal to price in market and nobody else would enter.
        as more comapnies enter, the supply curve flattens, or its slope decreases, prices would decreases but cost wouldn't decreaes per product,henc profit would decreases. and it keeps repeating.
        hence in the long run the price would remain constant. as new firms would enter if you raise price and firm would leave if you lower prices.
        this whole thing is about perfect competition.
        competition forces cost minimization. and each firm produces at marginal cost = price 
        our assumptions that don't work in real world:
        limited entry:
            there is sunk cost for entry, hence people might not want to enter 
        firms may differ:
            we assumed firms to be identical.
            different firms have different cost functions, hence they can make profit.
        

lecture 9: supply and demand 
    1. shocking supply and demand curves
        higher prices means we can produce more as we can have now more marginal cost.
        price goes up means either supply curve shifts or demand curve shifts and same for price goes down.

    why does demand curves shift:
        change in taste, change in income, change in substituteent good/complementary good, change in market size, expectations of the future (if you expect prices to go up tommorow)
    why does supply curve shifts:
        changes in input costs, shift in technologies in production.
        increase demand and more companies enter and profit of other companies decreases.
    
    what determines the shapes of supply and demand curves:

    so far we figured out why consumers and firms behave what they do.

    welfare economics:
        measure of well being.
        it is normative ecnomics.

        consumer surplus:
            the benefit you get above what you paid for.
            it is how much you are willing to pay - how much you paid.
            compensating variations: 
                how much would you pay to be better off or worse off.
            
            surplus = price on demand curve - price on supply curve 
            at equillibrium it is 0.
            
            this concept is for individuals.

        market consumer surplus:
            same but for whole market.
            it is area below the demand curve.
        
        producer surplus:
            willingness to supply - price 
            it is array between price and supply surve.
        
lecture 10: welfare economics
    theorem: competition maximizes social welfare
        social welfare = consumer surplus + producer welfare
        and equillibrium point is the place where it is maximum.
        the area under and below is maximum there.
        hence equillibrium is the best place to be.
    dead weight loss: if government puts price max, and there are certain trades that could have been made but now won't happen. it would also result in inefficiency in distribution.
    hence non market allocation of products is highly efficient.

    equity: fairness, eg rich vs poor aka vertical equity.

    example: adele wanted to make her tickets cheap, but professional bought and sold at black market.
        adele created inefficient market as she was being selfish, but the professionals made the market efficient as adele was putting price ceiling.

    people don't really like economics.
    morals do matter in market, although we don't talk about them.

    market is amazing almost intelligent as the most intelligent man.

lecture 11: Monopoly profit maximization.
    market with one firm.
    there is only only one firm providing the good.
    in reality we have oligopolies, a market with several firms but not perfectly competing.
    now firms are going to be price makers and not price takers.
    assumption: there is no price descrimination, one price for all customers.
    the goal is to maximize the profit.
    at maxima, marginal revenue = marginal cost. but not here.
    cost remains same.
    in monopoly market q become Q 
        hence demand curve is downword sloping, hence if you increase price, the demand also decreases.
        in principal you can calculate profit for each point on demand curve and choose the maximum.
        hence marginal revenue = p + (delta p/delta Q)Q 
            it is drevenue/dq 
            dp/dq is negative as it is the slope of demand curve.
            it is called poisoning effect.
            hence revenue per unit decreases as you produce more, as prices decrease.
            hence marginal revenue would always decrease.
            MR = p+p(1/e) = p(1+1/e) where e is elasticity of demand. elasticity of demand is the slope of demand curve.

        profit maximization:
            marginal revenue = marginal cost.
            price will always come from demand curve,even if you produce less or more.
    market power:
        you can charge more than your marginal cost.
        but demand would decrease.
    welfare effects of monopoly:
        it doesn't maximize the welfare.
        there is market failure.
            when the market equallibrium does not maximize the social welfare.
            now government might act as a good guy.
    
    what if we allow molopolist to have seperate price for different users: price distrimination
        monopoly can maximize social welfare.
        you charge as per demand curve, you sell first unit for 8 then second unit for 6 and so on. you charge every customer as per their willingness to pay. we have equallibrium with no dead weight, but the producers get all the surplus. in reality no firm is price discriminatory. Amazon tried it based on IP, they got bused and that was found illegal. it works for airplane tickets. They use the signals to check the elasticity. similarly they have business class etc 
        example would be park tickets for locals is less as they have choice to enter or go home.

lecture 12: monopoly II 
    where do monopolies come from:
        1. cost advantages
             natural monopoly eg there is only one well of oil and someone owns it. Hence he will always provide at lower costs that other.
             or if you have laid pipelines for water, then the harder part is done and everything else is easy and it is hard for other to come. And fixed cost is huge, then average cost would decrease with time, and once one firm enters, then another firm doesn't have incentive.
             this is one common way.
        2. through government actions.
             eg production of steel, airlines, banking doing itelf. 
             or by creating barriers to entry eg by using patents.
             and they create a dead wait loss.

    addressing monopolies:
        1. through government regulations.
            you see the dead wait loss because of monopoly, and there is a market failure, now you can apply price ceiling and get rid of dead wait loss.
            price with perfect market is bad, but here it helps. But the government need to know what the demand curve is and it is hard to figure out. similarly it is hard to know the supply curve, and their marginal cost.
        2. Introduce competition:
            eg broadband delivery, as someone has to lay the wires to your house.
            it is a better option that works.

    contestable markets: 
        monopoly markets with no market power.
        if second firm can get in easily, then you don't have much power over price.
        and price falls very close to marginal cost.

lecture 13: oligopoly, the most realistic case 
    a small group of firms with some barriers to entry.
    eg auto industry, they compete with each other.
    they can behave coopratively or non coopratively.
        for coopratively they can make a cartel, they get togther and make decisions eg OPEC, organisation of petroleum exporting countires, they control 2/3rd of the world oil supply with about a dozen nations. By cooperation they act like monopoly. And they make a lot of money that way.

        but typically they behave in non cooprative way. they are close to perfect competition than monopoly.
        the tool of game theory is used to figure out what to do.
        think of them as being engaged in a game.
            we need to know the strategy, and when is the game over(equallibrium) typical is the nash equallibrium.
            nash equallibrium: the point at which no player wants to change his strategy given the strategy of other players. i.e every other player is happy with where they are.

            eg prisoners dilemma:
                arrest two guys and put them in separate rooms.
                payoff matrix.

                                            prisoner B
                                    silent                  talk 
                            silent     1,1                   5,0   
                
            prisoner A 

                            talk      0,5                     2,2

                nash equallibrium is based on dominant strategy.
                dominant cooperative strategy is for both to remain silent.
                dominant non cooprative strategy is to talk. as no matter what other guy does, you are better off talking than not talking. And non-cooperative equallibrium is always worse for the players. before this people thought competition is always better. Nash brilliant insignt was that co-operation can give better outcome than competition for players in a game.

                intersection of dominant strategies, is the nash equallibrium.

        lets think about adverstising:
            coke vs pepsi, and they have to decide if to adverstise. and total profit in market is 8,8 billion.

                                            pepsi
                                    Ad.                  no AD  
                            Ad      3,3                   13,-2   
                
                coke 

                            no Ad   -2,13                    8,8

                here the dominant strategy is to adverstise

            coke and pepsi are not playing one shot game, they are playing a repeated game.
            if coke says if am not going to advertise until you don't adverstise.
            but pepsi ditches they are going to make yearly: 13,3,3,3,3,3,........
            but if pepsi doesn't adverstise they make: 8,8,8,8,8,8,8,8,8,8,8,..............
            hence repeated play fixes dileema and coke solved it.
            if there are finite number of plays, they will cheat on last year. And they adverstise, but they both know so they both do it.

        cournot model of non coopeartive oligopolies:
            the goal is to choose the quanity and price
            cournot equallibrium: nash is equallibrium in this case, where given the quanity by all other, you don't want to change your quanity. 
            steps to solve cournot eq.
            1. ask how your demand changes when some of it is observed by other firms, i.e is what does your demand look like given other firms: residual demand. qA=Q-qB (if you already know how much the other firm is going to made, then you can solve for the rest of the quanity as  a monopolist with your demand curve, but we don't know what other firm is going to do)
                best response cruves is the curves where you have a best value for each value of other firm. Since both have the curves, the point of intersection is the cournot equallibrium.
            2. Marginal revenue MR= function of your quanity and other firms quanity.
            3. set MR = MC if delivers you an optimal quanity as a function of other firms quanity.
            4. do the same for other firm (in case of two firms) and now you have two equations and two unknowns so we solve.

            there might not be an equallibrium. you can have multiple equallibrium.

lecture 14:
    cartels:
        when firms cooperate.
        they will do calculatations, as if they were a monopoly and then split it among themselves.
        and these profits are higher than non cooprative scenario.

        why don't they do this:
            it is fundamentally unstable, as each firm has incentive to cheat.
            they are illegal, government doesn't allow it.
            oil comapnies kept making cartels and it kept breaking.
            Anti-Trust laws: laws that avoid making cartels.
        
        there are often secret talks, and secret cartels all around.
        sometimes government can build a cartel.

        as long as there is no evidence that they agreed, it is not a cartel, you can copy prices without being called a cartel, and it wouldn't be anti-trust violations.


    comparing :
        monopoly/cartel has more profit
        oligopolies don't have best profit.
        in perfectly competition profit is zero.
        the more you monopolize the more the profit.
        welfare is max in perfect competition then in oligopolies and least in monopolies.
        the more competitive the market higher the welfare but lower the profits.

    what if there are many firms:
        it just makes n equations with n unknowns.
        turns out as number of firms increase it approches perfect competitive market.
        more firms also make cooperation harder,hence cartel harder.
    
    mergers:
        two companies merge.
        government has to allow the merge first.
        they evaluate the benefits and check if it results in monopoly.
        market power means how much power you have over market.

    price competition:
        another way of reaching to equallibrium by competition in prices, and then based on demand you choose q.
        but in price competition you have to make it tommorow, you can't have product after a year. Hence for things that take time, you can't decide equallibrium based on price competition, but for things where there is no lag you can use price competitions for equallibrium instead of cournot.
        in reality it lies somewhere in between.

        product differentiation:
            if you somehow differentiate your product from other hence nobody can steal your market by price competition.

lecture 15: input markets: labor market: factor market:
    where do w and r come from where w is wage and r is rent.

    factor demand:
        assuming it is perfectly competitive, a lot of firms are there who want to hire workers.
        and output is also perfectly competitive: the market of products is not monopoly.
        in short run the capital is fixed:
            to check if we need to hire an another worker, we check if the marginal benefits outdo marginal cost. the marginal benefit is called marginal product of labor MPl, it is the raise in output. and the value of next unit is marginal revenue MR 
            then marginal revenue of product MRP= MPL X MR, marginal cost is the wage w  
            equal it to wage for optimal value 
            in perfectly competitive market MR is price 
                MPl X p = w 
            hence hire workers until what they make for you is less than or equal to what is their wage.
            the marginal product of labor is diminishing.
            hence if p is high w will also be high.
                eg lebron james makes 30 million becuase his marginal product is really high, and others don't have that much.
                for high wage, both marginal product and price has to be high, only one is not sufficient.

        in long run labor demand: capital can adjust as well.
            long run labor demand is more elastic than short run.

        capital demand:
            same intuition.
            you wanna get machines unitl MPk p = r 

        
        deriving market labor supply:
            how to we model how hard people want to work.
            you would want to work hard to have more money, but you can prefer leisure over work.

            Hours you work H = 24 - leisure l 
            you get demand for leisure from consumer theory where they hve to choose between more money and leisure. and find 24-N as tangent to the indifference curves.
            
            when the wage goes up, the price of leisure goes up, the subsituion effect says that demand for leisure goes down as it is a normal good. The income effect says, you are richer so you want more of normal goods, hence you would buy more leisure, so you don't know the net output.
            eg if you win a lottery, you can either not work in life or start a startup.
            hence paying workers more can make workers work less.

            in reality: what does the evidence say:

        child labor: kids being forced to work:
            it is dangerous, adn they don't get to go to school.
            one argument against free trade is : if you get stuff from vietnam then more kids are going to get to work. But then on the other hand free trade makes people rich so they want their kids educated now.
            turns out in reality it actually decreased in vietnam over time, although it would increase initially.

lecture 16:
     labor market equillibrium:
        there is labor supply upward sloping, and demand curve which is decreasing.
        minimum wage would result in supply surplus, if it is below equallibrium point.
        i won't hire after the marginal cost is more than marginal revenue.
        with minimum wage workers are paid better but now there are fewer job.
        hence we end up with higher wages, fewer workers, and social welfare has gone down.

        in perfectly competitive labor market firms cannot pay you less than other comapnies.
        monopsony: when firms have power over labor market.
        in reality labor market is not perfectly competitive, and firms decide the wage, as it is not easy to get the job so companies pay you less than you your marignal rate of product.
        if minimum wage is above equallibrium/marginal revenue then unemployment rate increases.

    capital markets:
        builings and machines.
        capital comes from not consuming today. you can take what you make and eat it now, or increase the capital using it for more profits in future.
        people get capital from capital market. and money in that market comes from households decisions to save, and money is borrowed from people.
        demand for capital comes from marginal revenue of next machine.
        supply comes from household savings and supply increases with increase in interest and demand decreases with more interest.
        in reality this happens through financial markets, 
            1. corporate debt: a company issuing a bond.
            2. equity: buy a piece of me and you get some of what we make.
            3. loan from bank: bank takes from people and loan to firms.
        supply comes from intertemperal choices: choices our time.
            assume no inflation, with incentive of interest people would love to have more money tommorow than same today.
            you model consumption today and consumption next year and get indfference curves and the tangent is a function of interest rate.

lecture 17:
    how capital markets impact real world:
        present value:
            money today is worth more than having money tommorow as second is the subset of first/impatience. and interst rate reflects that value, and thats where interest rate comes from, it comes from impatience market. it has nothing to do with inflation, it works irrespective of inflation.
            compounding<> interst over interst.
        
        inflation:
            the rise in price percentage year after year, based on a basket/bundle of goods.
            real interest rate r= nominal interest rate i - inflation rate pi 
            inflation doesn't account for the fact that things improve that's why prices are more.

        choices over time:
            pick the choice with highest present value, even if all are negative.

        how do firms make investment decisions:
            find net present value. present value of cost is also included.
            higher interest rates means lower investment. interest rate is the opportunity cost of investment.
            high interest is bad for econmy because it lowers investment demand.
            i that firms put in formula is not from bank i comes from next best thing they could have done.
            even going to college is an investment decision.
        after age 22, an average college going person would always earn more than high school going.
        but if interst rate is more than 8%, going to college is a bad deal.

lecture 18:
    savings:
        critically important aspect of economy.
        savings go up and capital supply shifts out, interest rates fall. Hence NPV of investment goes up. which means investment goes up.
        hence savings lead to economic growth.
        hence it is a public policy to make people save.
        it is encouraged to save, eg by tax subsidy to retirement savings.
        your interest earned also gets taxed.
        but if you save for retirement they won't tax it.
        example emplower pension from your salary every month.
        401k's your money from salary gets saved.
        indivudual retirements accounts etc 
        paying taxes in future are better than paying taxes now, as you can keep on earning interst.
        there are accounts that get interested but at the end of of your retirement hence you get more money, as your tax also gets compounded so you make more.
    investments:
        money market fund:
            money is invested in government bonds, they are ultra safe, you get paid back, but the interest rate is low.
        bond fund: 
            corporate funds, less safe as corporate do go out of business, they pay more interst.
        stocks:
            corporate equity, you own a piece of comapany and you get paid as per how good the company is doing, traditionally you get about 7% here 2% in money market fund and 4-5% in bond fund.
        
        risk-return tradeoff:
            high risk more returns,
            low risks low returns.
            economists recommand diversification, you spread your money across different things, in other words don't put your eggs in one basket.

            when you work for company X don't buy stocks of company X as that is putting all eggs in one basket, but sometimes you are stuck by stock options.

    International Trade:
        there are exports (what you sell), imports(what you buy)
        US sells 1.6T and buys 2.4T, we have trade deficit. But that is what people wanted, they wanted to buy that stuff. It is not inherently bad.

        production possibility frontier.
            that curve that i know.
            economy of scope:
                doing both instead of one of the two and how that scales.
        comparative advantage: when opportunity cost is lower.
        International trade is all about comparative advantage, it means you don't need to be amazing, you need to be better than other.
        you don't have to be better than other for you to have comparative adavantage, for eg. lebron james can play better basketball and mow lawns than me but opportunity cost for him doing mowing is immense so i have comparative advantage in mowing the lawn.
        comparative advantage is relative adavantage.
        in comparative advantage, people should speicialze instead of do everything.
        even if production possiblity frontier is linear, there will still be comparative advantage in the from of slope of curve. eg in us 1 computer for 1000 roses, and in columbia 1 computer for 100000 roses.

        by trading we allow specialization, without trade we cannot speicialze as we need other things.
        now US will on produce computers and columbia will only produce roses.

        we have more goods in the world once we trade.

lecture 19:
    comparative advantages comes from:
        factor endowments: 
            eg canada has forest hence paper, china has cheap labor etc 
        technology:
            japan has better technologies for producing cars.

    welfare in trade:
        exports might increase price and imports decrease the price but in both cases the overall welfare increases.
    thats why trade deficits do not make any indfference.

    trading policy:
        imports are job killer: restrictions 
            quatas: limit to imports 
            tariff: tax on imports
                tariff raises the price, but it would still be less than domestic price. Although the welfare decreases.
            it causes trade wars, if you tax their roses, they tax your computers.
            thats why we have trading agreements like NAFTA between US, Canada and MExico. for free trade within them.
            and since people who lose their jobs domesticaly could cause such deals to not happen.
            thats why people oppose free trade.
            another reason could be because the comparative advantages is harmful like by child labor, poor working conditions, pollution: social damages

            trade policy as a tool of foreign policy:
                eg china doesn't allow US goods to be sold easily so trump was like tariffs.

            WTO: world trading organisation, that puts some rules for countires.
            immigration is good as you get better people in US.

lecture 20: uncertainity
    next three weeks is about application of what we have learned so far.
    how uncertainity effects your decision making:
        expected utility theory:
            you find expected value of any gamble:
                p(win) win amount + p(lose) lose amount
            more than fair bet: when expected value is greater than 0.
        expected utility:
            p(win) u(win) + p(lose) u(lose)
            and utility is not linear function of dollar, as there is law of dimishing utility.
            losing a dollar means you lose a lot utility than when you win a dollar and gain some utility.
            sqrt( how much you have) you find if the bet is you get 125 for hundred in coin toss the expected utility is 7.5 in contract to 10 when you had 100 dollars.

            humans are risk averse: we don't like risk.
            wealth and utility are not linear, it is like sqrt of wealth like logarithmic curve.

            thats why majority of the people don't gamble even with 50 50 chance.

        we can chose different utility function. it could be linear even increasing, but usually the utility dimishes.
        for people who gamble, their utility function is linear.
        loss aversion: people feel more sad when they lose than the happy they are when they win.

        applications:
            insurance:
                people buy insurance, because they are risk and loss averse.
                you can find at what premium should you buy your insurance at based on probability of falling sick.
            for lottery:
                the expected value for each dollar is 50 cent.
                risk tolerance varies: people love risk over small scale and not at big scale.
                and risk at small scale can provide entertainment.

lecture 21: efficiency and equity
    equity: fairness 
    equality: same, it could be unfair.

    equity efficiently tradeoff:
        making distribution equal introduces inefficiencies.
        if you take money from rich and give it to poor, there is some leakage.
    
    choosing social optimum:
        sw = f( u1,u2, u3,.....) for whole population
        draw indifference curves of sw.
        and based on our cost function choose the one that is most further from origin.
        typical sw functions:
            1. utililarian:
                swf= u1+u2+u3+.....+un 
                    it means everyone has to have same money for maxima because of marignal utility decresases. hence you can't take from one and give to other.
            2. Rawlsian:
                swf = min(u1,u2,u3,...) hence all you care about is the worst member of society.
            3. nozickian argument:
                never redistribute income, only distribute opportunities.
                equalize the opportunity and let the dice roll.
            4. commodity eqalitarianism:
                everybody should have food and shelter etc, above that who cares.
                as long as everyone is having a decent life.

        Inequality:
            Inequality of income.
            Inequality is a measure of relative distribution.
            absolute distribution: poverty line: minimum we need to live.
        the government redistributes money based on poverty line.
        cost of redistribution:
            efficiently cost/leakage 
                administrative cost: small 
            efficiently cost of taxation:
                if you tax people and take their money, they would work less hard.
            efficienty cost of tranfers:
                when you give people money, they may work less.
        transfer: money to poor by government.
            eg transfer program/welfare program you get max(0, 10000-your earn)
            this money comes from tax:
                marginal tax rate.
                    you only pay on next dollar.
                    eg 20% for each dollar after 20000
            welfare program could cause people to quit for people who get the transfer, and people who got taxed would work more now as they are poorer or they can work less as they are gonna get taxed too much.But essentially we reduce how much people want to work. You decide if to do it or not based on social welfare function.

lecture 22:
    taxation in US:
        who bears taxes: tax incidence 
            if you are taxed you might increase the prices, hence supply shifts to the left, hence it is the consumers that pay.
            hence the incidence on consumers is how much of tax is from consumers.
            tax wedge is how much you get after paying the taxes.
            eg tax is 50 cents each unit so you increase price by 30 cents so burden on consumers is 30 cents and burden on you is 20 cents.
            you need to see how bears the consequences not who is paying the check.
             
            it doesn't matter who is paying the tax,  the effects would be same, eg if instead of comapnies the people pay tax every time they buy , then teh demand curve would shift down and equillibrium price would be less, and effects would be same, just the machanism changed, and people get mad when they are taxed instead of firms, when in reality the effects are same.

        who bares taxes depends on elastities, more elasticity means you can avoid tax more.
            if no elasticity: all tax by consumers as prices go up, and demand doesn't change.
            if supply doesn't change then all bore by producer.
            inelasticity means no negotiating power.

        what to tax:
            should we tax income? or should we tax comsumption? 
            income = consumption + savings
            savings help in groing savings, hence to promote, you tax consumption.
            but it turns out rich save and poor don't, hence only poor would pay the tax, hence money would flow from poor to rich.
            death tax: tax the savings of rich when the die and their savings ar inherited to make things fair. That way rich also pay tax.

        transfers:
            T= max(o,1000-y)
            this is like a tax you pay.

            categorical tranfers:
                SSI: give to families with diabled children.
                TANF: single parent households.
                that way you reduce distortions because of transfers.
                this a a way of identifying people, who need help.
                blindness etc also.
            UBI: global movement that lets give everyone money, Universal based income.

lecture 23: market failures I : externalities 
    market failure means when market is not achieving first best outcome, when welfare is not best we could achieve. eg by imperfect market competition 
    one of the reason is externalities.
    externalities:
        an externalities occurs when a party  effects second one and the cost and benefit is not paid to first party.
        eg steel factory near river, dumps waste to river and fishermen down the river can't find fish as it kills fish. it is negative production externality.
        we also care about social cost.
        negative consumer externalities: when my consumption makes the society worse off.
                  externalities only occur when you don't bare the consequences.
                  eg smoking, in a room is as good as other also smoking, and they get sick.
                  and 100,000 people die becuase of fire caused by smoke across the world.
                  also smokers are less productive at work(it is not externality if they are paid less accordingly)
        interalizing the externalities: when both parties work together and figure out an optimal solution. negotiating.
        positive production externalities: R&D helps the firms as well as the rest of the world. around 2.5 to the world. They hence should be doing more but they are doing less hence there is dead weight loss. as the cost in reality is less as there is social benefit that you could subract from cost.

        government solutions:
            make it better by reguations, like tell them don't produce more than x. but they need a lot of data for this. Or increase tax with every new unit of steel they produce. Hence shift the supply curve to to the curve which it was supposed to have.
            similarly it can subsidize the positive production externalities to produce more and hence reduce market failures.
            Hence a tax can correct market failure, but if tax is set wrong it can make things worse.

            in practise:
                global warming: is a negative externality: the natural solution is carbon tax. Hence corrective taxation can help a lot. But in practise people don't like taxes.
                hence we have quantity regulations.

                health externalities: eg smoking, drinking, drunk driving cause 13000 deaths per year, and obesity, 1 in 3 is obese in country. 
                    we can inform people to not smoke that is first approach.
                    taxation is second solution. But not all drinkers cause accidents.
                    we can penalise the drunk driving.
                    make drugs illegal.

lecture 24:
    information assymetry: difference in information with buyers and sellers, which results in market failure.
    eg someone selling the car knows what is wrong with it, but the buyer doesn't 
        WELFARe is not maximized and the market is called failure.
        or if you have amazing old car but the buyer doesn't trust you that it is working fine.
    eg insurance compnay if you know that there is something wrong with you but the insurance company doesn't.
    Adverse selection: most of the people who are more prone to being sick will buy health insurance.

    government solution:
        subsidise the buying of health insurance. by tax subsidity to employer health insurance.
        or pass a law that everone has to buy health insurance.
        provide insurance eg social securities, diablity insurance etc. these are social insurances.

        moral hazards:incenstive to increase risk as you don't bear whole cost. insurance causes people to take risk eg drive carelessly.
        

lecture 25: Health economics:
    US spends about 20% of gdp on healthcare.
    ESI: employee sponsered insurance.


        

        
        