Personal Finance missouri state university:
-------------------------------------------

    Goal Setting:
        goal: something that we strive for, it could be long term or short term or intermediate goal.
        short term goals is within a year thing, greater than five years are long term, and one to five year are intermediate goals.
        SMART goals= specific, measure, attainable, realistic, time(when do you want to achieve)
            eg save 3500 dollars in three years from today. It satisfies above conditions.
            attainable means if it is possible, and realistic means under current circumstances could i do it.
        
        Finacial Goals:
            Saving
                eg save 4000 for emergency savings in 12 months.
            Housing
                in 10 years, save 15000 to use as a down payment on a three bedroom 150000 house in southwest missouri.
            Insurance
                save 1000 in 12 months so ic an raise my deductible(insurance premium for different kinds of insurances)
            Retirement
                At age 60, I want a monthly income of 5000.
            
                you need to monitor your goals, and see if prices are changing etc.
            
    
    Budgeting:
        budget: A budget is a spending plan.
        you designate dollars for specific areas.

        Where do the numbers come from?
            Cash flow statements.
                expenditure vs teh budget which we plan.
            we see if there is excess or unusual amounts.
        
        expenses: clothing, food, entertainment, rent, insurance etc.
        cash flow statements: cash in flows and cash out flows for a month, be realistic.
        see if your goals are being met.
        see if some expenses are out of line.
        list all your income etc.
        compare income to expenses, in ideal world your expenses should be less than your income.
        there are fixed expenses and variable expenses.
        you can cut back on variable expenses.
        all goals are fixed expenses, you can't cut from them.
        or you can adjust your income to meet the needs.
        hopefully by the end you would have equilibrium at least.
        try to write your budget.

    Credit:
        Credit: credit is an arrangement to recieve something now and pay for it in the future, based on the trust that in future it would be paid eg i got unlimited credit.
        other meanings of credit: recieved or added to your account.
        consumer credit:
            any credit other than mortgage.
        cost of credit:
            credit could be expensive.
            credit makes it easy to buy things.
            credit negatively effects our ability to save.
            to have credit means to have ability to borrow.
        credit bereau:
            it has info about your credit history, it collects and shares your credit info.
            there are many companies.
            you are entitled to your annual report.
            in the report is your payment history,
            if you are paying on time.
            all avaiable credit.
            it has your employment information.
            your home information.
            if you find inaccurate info, you have to correct it.
        
        credit score:
            it is a score that scores your credit report.
            eg 700+ is good FICO score.
            higher score is better.
            lower score may result in hgiher cost of credit.
            you debt effects it.
            your payment history, types of credit, types of credit etc effect your credit.
            take care of these to improve your credit score.
        
        Types of credit:
            credit card:
                convenience users and borrowers.
                bank card or merchand card 
                merchand card can be used at specific locations like gas stations etc.
            unsecured loan:
                depending on your credit this may or may not be avaiable.
            secured loan:
                the lender has collateral, therefore less risk.
            mortgage:
                less risk, but larger amount.
        
        obtaining the credit:
            credit card: apply for credit card.
            unsecured loan: talk to your financial institution
            secured loan: talk to your financial instituion or the company selling hte product.
            mortgage: via financial institution.
        
        evaualting credit worthiness:
            capacity
            character
            collateral
            capital: what assets do you have like savings, car, etc 
            economic conditions: they may or may not be lending based on what is going on.
        
    your credit score is 0 if you have no credit history, it is not the worst, but better have one as it would make things difficult.

    your balance sheet show you where you are.
    keep at least 4 basic goals, savings, retirement, insurance, housing.

    Annuities:
        a level stream of cash flow for a fixed period of time, a constant period apart.
        it could be you paying Annuities for mortgage or getting ones.
    
    time value of money:
        rule of 72 to see when it double approximately.
        interest on interest is called compounding.

    investing:
        bonds, stocks, etc
        mutual funds: professionally managed portfolio, with some management fee.
        return: increase in price plus the divident.
        don't set unrealistic goals.
        you would take unrealestic risks.
        don't lose sight of your goal, you would get greedy or scared.

    insurance:
        it is all about risk management.
        it is there to prevent financial loss.
        you pay premium.
        based on the concept of large numbers.
        even if they cancel out, they can invest your premium, or have fixed deposit of it.
        risk: an unpredictable chance of loss or injury.
        hazard: anything that increases the likelihood of loss, eg bade wiring, icy conditions.
        peril: anything that causes the loss, fire wind etc, your insurance covers specific perils.
        risk management:
            avoid the risk.
            reduce the risk.
            assume the risk, that whatever happens happens.
            shift risk: to insurance company.
        
        areas of insurance:
            property, like automobile, home etc. structure or the contents.
            health etc 
            life

        different insurances have different coverages.

youtube:
    CEO stategy: cut spending, earn more, optimize spending.
    cut big things, not your latte, eg not buying new laptop etc 
    you should have 1 year emergency cash.
    have no debt policy.
    save atleast 6 months of emergency saving, it could be in stocks or anywhere.
    invest your surplus.
    keep your emotions controlled.
    you win a few, you lose a few.
    always ask for more money.
    follow the money: where is money coming from, and how do i deserve that money.
    investing is the key to growing your money.
    tax is not the big deal: just reduce your taxable income, use credits to reduce your tax, use deductions to reduce your tax(deductions are like rent etc), basically take advantage of everything.
    there are long term savings, and emergency savings.
    fdic insured: if banks get bankrupt govt pays.
    you don't get paid for effort, but the results.
    debt leads to stress.
    index fund: a bunch of companies, eg s&p 500

wikipedia:
    save atleast 20% of your income.
    create an emergency fund.
    pay as less tax as possible.
    invest in diversified portfolio.

SAVINGS: MIT 
    we save for cosumption smoothening, i.e to not have irregularities.
    saving for special events in life eg. retirement, it is the biggest event, other events are like child birth, wedding etc 
    you also save to take advantage of opportunities like start a business, buy home, pay for school, investments.
    It may be inefficient to save if there is high inflation, or if it is difficult to save.
    if you won't live long enough, you might not want to save.
    if social security covers for you being poor, there might not be incentive to save.
    if you know in future you would get loads of money, there is no need to save.
    saving is trading off consumption today with consumption in future.
    you might not save if you can barely survive today with what you have today.
    you can save in form of financial asset to fight inflation eg stocks bonds, FD etc.
    there is cost of banking as bank has to pay for the whole operation so you might not save in bank.
    ROSCA that dukaandar wala game, putting money together and everyone gets the whole at some point in time.
    make sure your saving is highly liquid, eg don't build half your house with your saving, this is called brick by brick saving.
    self help groups: like rosca a bunch of people who help each other withs savings, there is some accounting here. rosca is a simpler form of self help groups.
    saving: when you are not spending all you earn.
    you can save for long term goals like buying a house or short term goals like buying clothes. You can save to avoid emergency things.
    emergency fund is the most important thing, save for about 6 months of expenses.
    saving is to be secure.
    50/ 30/ 20 rule, for needs wants and savings.
    living paycheck to paycheck: not having savings.
    disposable income as all sources of income minus the tax you pay on that income.
    One's savings rate is the percentage of disposable personal income that is kept rather than spent on consumption or obligations.
    401k is americas equivalent of your provident fund, it has nothing to do with 401,000
    
