Rachana Phadke Ranade:
----------------------
lecture 1:
    in shares you get divident from the companies. Like interest from FD (fixed deposit)
    google hasn't given divident ever. It says you don't know how to invest, better we expand and oru share price will increase and investor will make profit anyway.
    FD rates in us are 2-3 % and loans are also at 4 %. In india interest rate for FD is at 5% and 10% for loans.
    own idea: loans should be given at double the FD interest rate, that way bank is also earning the way a person with FD account is earning. A person with FD earns 5% and bank also earns 5%.
    LTCG: Long Term Capital Gain, profit you earn after keeping shares for longer than a year. It is tax free, to a limit.
    interest is not tax free, divident is tax free.
    it is companies decision, whether to declare divident or not.
    divident is given on face value (market value is the price of the share )
    promotors of a company: the starters of company. face value is the price of the share on first day. the promotors decide the face value of the company.
    if company is listed on stock exchange then it has to make shares on demat (demateralize) format, and not physical form (PAPER, share certificate).
    financial literacy in india.
    there still are physical shares for some companies, but now you have to demateralize them.
    getting physical share of demat share is called remat.
    abc private limited is company with a few share holder, abc public limited is a company with a few hundred share holders. if you list it on stock market, it is now listed company.
    after face value, the value for the next of the journey is called issuing at premium. You puchase share in IPO at premium.
    and then it is listed on stock exchange for some price. (listing price)
    turnover<>sales<>revenue<>top line growth, bottom line growth the profit after everything else.
    share, profit and turnover has a postive corelation on average.
    stock split: reduce value of share by a factor and give everyone shares mulitple of the factor now,so now we have more shares and the value is low, so know people can afford it.usually it results in increase in stock price again.

next youtube course:
--------------------
    76% of indians are not financially aware.
    companies need money to run and expand. Hence stock market exists so they can take money from people.
    there are hundreds of stock brokers in india.
    companies can give even half of profit as divident, they can give it mulitple times a day. they can also reinvest instead. even share can increase or decrease because of stock split or bonus shares.
    stock split 1:10 means split into 10 

    market capitalization = share price X no. of common shares outstanding.
    reliance has 6 billion shares, mrf has 4 million shares.
    the size of company is dependent on market capitalization.

    campines can be large cap, mid cap, small cap.

    hedge funds takes money from people and invest in companies.

    stock started in 1602 in amsterdam, before that people would take loans, amsterdam stock exchange is first one.
    stock exchange is a place where you buy and sell stocks.
    you can't directly do it, so you need a stock brokerage,eg upstock, you open a demat account. 
    india has two stock exchanges, NSE = national stock exchange, BSE bombay stock exchange.
    bse started in 1875. in 1992 scan we got nse.
    a lot of companies are listed on NSE and BSE. sensex is index of BSE to track market and NIFTY is index of NSE. sensex means sensitive index, nifty is national fifty.
    sensex has top 30 companies from different companies, nifty has 50 companies from different sectors.there are companies being added and removed from them.

    US has NASDAQ, AND NYSE.
    penny stocks, stocks with small and small market capitalization.
    check why a company is penny stock before investing, that if it is already bankrupt.
    
    pump and dump scam: pump shares of a company by fake news and then dump the shares at peak.

    divident is not everything.It could be misleading.
    intradelivery: buying and selling on same day.
    delivery: buying and selling after some time.

    dp charges are by borkerages for delivery stocks when you sell them say 20 rupees etc.
    dp charge is not per share based.
    no dp share for buying.
    SEBI regulates stock market, companies have to send report to SEBI beforing going public.
    SEBI approves IPO or rejects it.
    IPO comes when market is going up.
    IPO stays open for 10 days say , and you bid for money.
    companies decide the price. or price band.
    IPO is called primary market as you directly buy shares from company.
    then on stock exchange it is called secondary market.
    listing gain: when companies list, prices are more than issue price.
    






