youtube
-------------------------------------
    market capital: total value in dollars 

    what is a stock:
        an ownership in a company.
        traded on an exchange (NYSE, etc)
        types of stocks:
            energy, material, industrials, health care, financials, IT, real estate, etc
            about 11 sectors 
    market capitilization: value of all stocks in dollars.
        mega over 300 billion.
        large over 10 billion.
        mid 2 to 10 billion.
        small 300 million to 2 billion.
        micro 50 toooooo 300 million 
        nano below 50 million.
    
    penny stocks: trading below 5 dollars, or have small value.

    why trade stocks:
        beat inflation 
        grow your wealth 
        earn a second income.
    
    how to buy stock:
        you talk to stock broker,and stock broker talks to stock exchange.
        there are a lot of brokers out there.
        certain people might have privilage to directly buy stocks from exchanges, but that is just for institutions etc.
    how to profit from a stock:
        buy low sell high.
        buy high sell higher 
    how to calculate the returns:
        dollar 
            selling - buying 
        percent
            percentage profit.
        R multiple
            risk : reward
            how much you are ready to risk for that particular trade to how much you made.
    common trading terminologies:
        what is long and short:
            trade direction:
                long = profit if price goes up.
                short = prifit if price goes down eg borrowing shares from broker.
                    in short selling, the potential lose is infinite.
                
        what is bid and ask:
            Ask = the price you can buy at 
            Bid = the price you can sell at 
        what is spread:
            difference between bid and Ask 
            large cap stocks are more liquid (tighter bid ask spread)
    The different types of orders 
        market, limit, stop , stop loss.
        market order: enter the market now.
        pros: you know for sure you'll be in the trade.
        you get best in the market, but you pay premium.

        limit order:
            enter only if the market comes to your desired price (pullback)
            pros: enter a cheaper price 
            cons: might miss the move, trading against current momentum.
        stop order:
            enter only if the market moves in your favor (breakout)
            pros: enter trades with momentum.
            cons: mgiht be a false breakout.
        
        stop loss order:
            exit the trade if it goes against you.
            pros: cut your losses 
            cons: the market reverse back in your direction.
    how to analyze a stock:
        fundamental analysis: what to buy 
        technical analysis: when to buy 


    fundamental analysis:

        you want to derive value for company from financial statments, etc 

        qualitative.
            fundamentals that can't be quantified.
            technology disruption.
            economic moat.
            managment.

        quantitaive analysis.
            fundamentals that can be quantified.
            Assets (machinery etc )
            liabilitites.
            Revenue, Earnings, Cash flow, etc .
            RAtions(P/E,PB,P/CF, and etc.)

        buy stocks of company whose stock price is below it intrinsic value.
        but it is difficult, there is so much information, how do you know what is relavent.
        although quantitaive analysis happens to be better.
    
    which metrics to look at:
        earnings and net income.
            stocks with better earnings are better. Check how earnings have increased each quarter.

    Technical analysis: to time your entry.
        Trend
            higher highs and lows:if your peaks are higher than last peaks and your lows are higher than last lows. it is called up trend, and we want to buy this stock as we assume it is gonna go up.
            lower highs and lows:  next high is lower and next low is lower, it is down trend and you don't buy stock here.
            
            200- period moving average: above 200 MA means up trends
        Area of value 
            area from where stock usually goes up.
            trent line is tangent from downside.
            here are different moving averages like 200MA, 50MA etc 
        Entry trigger
            candlestick Pattern: for green close is at top and open at bottom. for red open is at top and close at low.
            if market is above 200 ma then buy as it is going up.
            buy when  it comes to are of value.
        
        day trading: trading within a day to profit from fluctuatons.
    
    risk managment:
    trading methods:
        day trading
            opportunity cost is high.
            you capture move every hour say.
        swing trading 
            you capture say one move in market a day.
        position trading 
            daily or weekly timeframe.
    
    investing is long term buying and selling.
    you expect the price to appreciate and make money.

    if company performs well, the share price goes up.
    day trading is done based on news, and patterns.

    reading a stock chart:
        candle sticks:
            5 minutes stock chart means 5 minutes of each candle.
            it says high and low,open and close.
            wick show the highest and lowest the prices have gone.
    loses are part of the game.
    sell if price is too low. dont wait that it will go up.
    
udemy: mohsen
     to learn day trading.
     you can trade your own money, or someone else.

     what is a stock:
        a security that signifies an ownership in a company, you now a claim on their equity, their buildings, their machines, their profits etc.
        stock <> share

    why are there stocks:
        you need capital to grow, so you give part/share of your company in return of shares. although your ownership decreases but the profit increases as your comapany grew quickly, which would have taken longer time organically.

    why buy stocks:
        pariticipate in the growth of that comapany and earn money.
        buy low and sell high.
        buy high and sell higher.
    
    how to buy stocks:
        private company: relatively small number of owner and do not trade on public exchange.
        public compaany : that trades on public exchanges.

        before public, companies are private.
        there is a processes by which private companies go public.

        to invest in private company, you gotta know the owner and you gotta be rich. it is not easier to invest in private company.

        anybody can invest in public company, and with any amount.

        when talking about trading we only talk about public companies, as private companies do not trade on exchange.

    market:
        a place where you can buy and sell, eg clothing market, grocery market etc.
        in stock market we trade/(buy and sell) stocks.

        auction market: buyers bid and highest bidder wins.

        stock market: it is an auction market, buyers bid for stocks and sellers ask for price, and it happens simulataneusly and that is how prices are set.

        primary market: the market where stocks trade in for first time ever.
        secondary market: every other time the stock is traded (second hand stocks)

        when a company is private( you own it or a bunch of people), you want to get funded, you have an IPO ( initial public offering ), you are going to sell part of your company to public for the first time, so your company becomes bigger. There are firms that specialize in IPO's and they would do an IPO for your company. They figure out from your company what money they can get you and what is the best price for your company stock for them to sell the amount of shares they want to sell. These companies are really good at it. eg if they can raise you 100 million dollars and they are gonna sell 1 million shares at 100 dollars per share, and these shares are sold in primary market, they contact all their relationships, their banks, brokers, their biggest clients etc, very few people can get shares during IPO, we rarely get shares in primary market, only big clients usually gets. Hence on a given day, they start trading on secondary market. eg nasdaq,nyse etc.

        we are never first people to get the shares ever.
        security <> bond.

    exchange:
        market is a general term.
        exchange is exact location where shares are being traded. These are physical.
            eg nasdaq, nyse 
        nowadays the exchange is electronic, earlier people would meet in townhalls and do the trading, eg every thursday.
    
        three main exchanges : nyse (biggest), nasdaq, amac
            first you list your stocks on that exchange.
            to be on nyse, you have got to be really big company.
            nasdaq is known to have tech companies on it.
            some companies, very rarely are interlisted ( on both )


    broker:
        with stock brokers, no people can trade stocks directly, they have to go through some brokers.
        somebody who you have to go through to buy or sell.
        like in wolf of the wallstreet, you talk to clients and convince them to buy or sell at given rates. usually it would take minutes. Now it is all automated.

        now a broker is a software.
        but you still pay commision for the paper work etc they do.

    order and order types:
    ---------------------------
    things to put in order: 
        ticker : abbreviation for company  eg MSFT is for microsoft.
        side   : is it a buy order or a sell order.
        type   : market order, limit order 
                 market order, buy/sell immediately, no matter what the price. it is instantenous.
                 limit order, buy/sell at better or as good as price i want. it might take time, or might not complete.
        price  : the price you want to sell/buy at 
        quantity: how many.

    what makes prices move:
        the order that people sent. supply and demand.
        shares outstanding: total number of shares that you company has.
        float: the amount of shares that are currently trading in market. a company might be holding some of the outstanding shares. the shares that trade right now is the float. eg 75%. 
        order are at exchange, broker sends these to exchange and exchange has computer with data of two columns buyers and sellers, where each column as the sellers ask and buyers bid in it.
        the person with better price is on top, and people with same price are ordered in time based.
        
        these two columns are called : level2/book 
        level 1 is highest price from buyers and lowest price in sellers column.
            it keep on changing.
        until prices don't match, there will be no trading.
        the names of these columns is bid and ask.

        for market order: they are not entered to book, if you are selling, then it would directly execute the top on l2/l1 until order is fullfilled. similarly if it is buy it would directly execute top on seller side of l2/l1 

        ToS: Time of sales is a table, where the exchange would report time and order quanity and price.
        you order can be partially filled.
        l1 still has the tops from l2. it always has.

        the price of a stock is the last price that stock traded at.

        if your bid is higher than the higest ask price, you buy at the price of seller, not your higher price. And if it is partially filled, then the rest of your order is entered to book.

        bid: best price to buy at.
        ask: best price from sellers side.
        spread: difference between them.
            if spread is high, never have a market order.
            bigger companies have small spread, like a cent.
        

    Different players:
    -------------------
        differently players play differently.
        eg a mutual fund would sell only when there is a good news.
        hence it is important to know if a specific stock has what kind of institutional ownership, and their behaviour. And this is publicy avaiable order.
        trading is zero sum game, for every dollar you put in your pocket, it came from someones pocket, like pocker.
        institutional vs retail owners.
        players:
            traders: they have tools etc.
            investors: keep for a while 
            retail traders: trade from home, no info, no tools etc.
                not that smart, so you always want to play against them and make money.
            mutual funds 
                apparently, mutual funds do not perform well on stock market.
            
            we don't predict stock price, we predict the behaviour of other players. How are other people evaluating the stock.
            hedge funds: like mutual funds but for rich. They are more smarter. 
                hard to win against them.
    
    three ways to make money:
        going long: buy and expect it to go higher.
        going short: you are betting that it would go down. sell at high and buy and low. you borrow the stock from broker, and sell it, and buy back at low and give back to broker.
            there is max with what you can make, but with long there is no limit.
            broker takes stock from other shareholders and borrows it to you.
            And in long run, stocks always go up, but when they go down, it happens really fast, than going up.
            short is used to make money quickly.
        being flat: having no positions, just making money by not losing it. if you are not sure, just be flat for some time and don't lose money that way.

    shortable stock <> stocks available for borrowing.
    
    chapter 2: technical analysis.
    -------------------------------
    to predict where stock is gonna go:
        technical analysis, fundamental analysis.
        some people only do technical analysis and some only do fundamental analysis.
        although both are needed depending on the circumstances.
        fundamental analysis: evaluating the stock fundamentally. reveneue, debt, managment etc.
        technicaly analysis: you only care about price and volume of shares.

        if your objective is to buy house today sell tommorow, you don't care the material that house is made up of, you just care about the price of neighbouring houses.
        similarly if you are buying a house for long time, you would care about material etc in it.

        hence if you use fundamental analysis for long term investment, and technical analysis for trading.
        day traders, swing traders only go for technical analysis.

    charts and candlesticks:
        chart is the graph of a stock.
            it is historical prices for that product over time.
            it gives you an indication of supply and demand.
        we use charts to predict future: past is the best prediction of future.

        line charts:
            time vs price but a contineous line.
            candlestick charts are line charts with more info.
        candlestick chart:
            open is the opening price 
            close is the last price of that day
            candlestick chart tells you what exactly happened.
            upper shadow <> upper wick 
            lower shadow <> lower wick 
            you can have candlestick for days to study day by day stocks.
            tradingview.com for charts.
        
        where stock closed on previous day is the name as the price it would open next day. it could change depending on news.

        different types of candlesticks:
        --------------------------------
            a candlestick can be for any period of time. 1 min, 5 min, 1 hour etc 

            1. big candle:
                    prices went up a lot, or prices went down a lot.
                    small candles are small changes.

            2. Dojis:
                    a candle where price goes high, goes low and comes back where it started. price closed at where it started.
                    it means it is hard to tell the next move of price, as there is indicision.

                    if trend was downwards and you see a doji and then green candle, the most likely the stock is gonna rise.
                    if trend was and one day we get a doji and next a red candle, then the trend might reverse.
            3. gravestone and dragonfly.
                    gravestone: goes really high but then comes back to opening price.
                    dragonfly : goes really low but then closes at opening price.

            4. shooting star and hammer:
                shooting star: opens, goes high, comes back just above opening price. like gravestone
                hammer: opens, goes down, comes back but below opening price. like dragonfly
            4. bullish harami and bearish harami 
                bearish harami: after green candle there is red which opens below and closes even but still within the body of green candle.
                    it represents an exhaused up trend, if trend has been going up previously.
                bullish harami is opposite.
            5. engulfing bullish and engulfing bearish:
                 engulfing bullish: a small red candle, followed by big green which opens below and closes higer than previous red candle. it engulfs the previous candle.
            
            just understand the candles, and what they say about supply and demand. dont go by the name of candles.
            Doji means indecision, gravestone and dragonfly are better than Doji, they tell you more and you can use then for entry and exit price.

            gravestone and dragonfly is the most consistent pattern, although it is not a stategy.
            your stategy has to be based on something more robust than candlesticks.

    trends, support and resistance.
        the trend is your friend, don't go against the trend.
        trends are at the core of technical analysis.
        th principal of technical analysis is that prices move in trends and history repeats itself.
        trend is just a direction where people are going in.
        stocks can have up trend, down trend. side trend.
        price don't move linearly, they fluctioate.
        up trend: higher lows and higher highs.
        sideways trend: low and highs are almost same.
        downtrend: lower lows and lower highs.

        trends tend to persist (remain in that direction)
            don't bet against the trend.
            mathmatically it is proven that it is more likely to follow the trend.
        uptrend line: given an uptrend draw a line connecting all lows, it is the slope of the trend.

        trends don't last forever, the trendline break is the point where trend breaks.
        always draw a trendline.

        you draw two trend lines, one to the lows and one to the highs. and both of them together is called a channel. Hence a stock moves within that channel. you can have up channel, down channel or side channel.

        you buy at lower part of channel and you sell at higher part of channel.
            it is very unlikely that stock would escape the channel.
        with technical analysis you guess your entries and exits.

        these trendlines serve as support and resisitance.
            support means it doesn't let it all.
            resistance, is something that price can't go through.

            lower trendline can be treated as support line, stock bounces off the support.
            upper trendline acts as resistance. stocks reflect from resistance.

            you buy on the support and you sell on the resistance.

            channels and trends are used all the time.

            you can do this within the day, or within a week etc.

            you can trade on sideways trend as well,buy on the support and sell on resistance.

        why does stock bounce off the support:
            it is a self fullfilling prophesy, you are not the only one who knows it. everybody follows it hence at the support the demand increases and at the resistance, the supply increases.

        where is support and resistance usually:
            near round numbers. eg 100, 200, 50,10 because so many people send orders with price and they don't put random decimals. that is why they are often round numbers and when price reaches there it cannot break it.

            so if you want to buy and you support is 450, buy it at 451 as there are a lot of buyers at 450 and demand goes up hence prices go up. hence buy a little bit above support, and sell a little bit below resisitance to put some people behind you.

            never send your order at round number.

            role reversal:
                if stock breaks out of your channel, if it goes up then your resistance is now the support and if it goes down then your support is now new resistance. and in round numbers it is very common.
                it is again a self fullfilling prophesy.
            finviz.com to check which stock is near which trendline.

            going by the trends is a basic/noob strategy, it could make you money although.
            don't look at something that nobody is looking at, because prices are going to be moving because of other people. You have to crack when are they gonna sell in huge volumes and prices will drop and when are they gonna buy in huge and prices are gonna go up.

            you can short or go long.
        
        trend lengths:
            you will have different trend lengths on same chart for different time scales.
            you could have an up trend within a down trend, that is short term.
            so which one to look at:
                look at all of them.
                and ofcourse it depends on how long you want keep the stock.
                best one time to trade would be when trends on all scales are in same direction.
                    all trends of all scales are aligned, although for intraday you would only focus medium and short term trends, and not on long term trends.
            for daily trends, the people would usually be same and thinking the same, whereas for monthly or yearly trends the people would be different how would sell or buy at trendlines.
            hence during intraday, the support and resistance tend to be stronger because the people are same and they would do things as per trend lines.
        
    chart patterns:
        patterns on chart that could indicate reversals.
        at the end of the day, charts are created by emotions of people.

        head and shoulders pattern:
            one of the most famous pattern.
            there are two shoulders, one on left and one on right and a head.
                in other words, two sideways trends and in between there is one big peak.
                there is left and right shoulders.
            the support is called the neckline.
            after the right shoulder, the theory says it is going to break the neckline and go low, indicating to sell the stock.
            everybody sells at the second shoulder, again a self fullfilling prophesy.
            if everybody sees a head and shoulder, then it would certanly break. If you are the only one who sees it, then it won't break.
        double top pattern:
            two tops (like m) then it would have hard time to break that resisitance. usually it means there is a big seller there and every time prices reach top, the sellers would execute and it cannot go any further.
            it would keep on going to that top and return.
            it would usually be a round number.

            double tops mean more in intraday, as on monthly scale it wouldn't mean the same seller.

        multiple tops:
            like double tops, there are multiple tops now, now it makes that double theory hypothesis even more strong and more and more people put their sell orders there and make it even stronger.
        double bottom:
            like double tops but at bottom. it would usually be a round number, and a lot of people would have buy orders at those bottoms. maybe a big buyer has a big order there.
        multiple bottoms:
            like mulitple tops, and people who recognize patterns make the patterns even stronger.
        
        triangles:
            ascending triange: there is top that is same but the next low is higher than earlier low,hence making a triangle. In other worlds, the support is going up. Buyers are more willing to buy at that price. And at the converging point, the stock breaks, either high or low. Dont buy at the breaking point as you don't know where it would break.
            descending triangle is the opposite, the buyers are willing to buy at only lower prices but ther is a support. and it would gets to a converging point.
            
            wedge: the sellers are selling at lower prices and buyers are buying at higher prices and at the corner it would break in one direction and everyone would buy in that direction.
        cup and handle:
            sudden drop, the slow drop and then it raise like a U and then it it does't fluctioate.
        rounding bottom:
            drop and increase, but not as sharply as cup and handle.
        
        the idea is not to remember patterns, but to understand the behaviour of buyers and sellers.
    
    VOLUME:
        in technical analysis we look at the prices and volumes.
        volume is the quantity of shares that were traded.
        you need enough quanity to be traded for that price to mean anything.
        volume confirms price.
        with increased volume, prices would go up or down.
        when there is news, there is high volume.
        always look at volume.
        there is low volume and prices go up. there is almost no chance of continuation.
        there would be high change in volume and then prices would change drastically.
        high prices at low volume mean nothing and same for low prices.

        average volume: average volume say of 3 months.
        relative volume:    relative to average volume.
        go in the direction where strong volume is heading.

    Indicators:
        a tool that we use that is a calculation based on price and volume.
        indicators are used for technical analysis.

        bollinger bands:
            lines above and below the fluctioating stock prices. it is very unlikely for stock to escape bollinger bands.
            it is kept n standard deviations above and below moving average.
            assuming stock prices are normal in nature now you can apply 68-95-99 rule.
            default 2 standard deviations.
            if stock prices go out of bollinger bands, it is very likely that it would come back.

        RSI (relative strenght indicator)
            to see if a stock is overbought or oversold.
            it is a number between 0 and hundred.
            RSI = 100-(100/(1+RS))= average gain/(average gain + average loss) times 100
            RS= Average gain/Average loss
            eg for last 14 days.
            average gain= average of all green days.
            100 RSI means overbought as green candles are dominating.
            0 RSI means oversold.
            rule of thumb: below 30 oversold, over 70 over bought.
            when stock stops being overbought from above you can sell it and when stock stops being oversold, you buy it.
            you can't apply it on any kind of stock.
            different strategies for different kind of stocks.
        
        Average True Range(ATR)
            it is average amount it moves in a day.
            you add ranges of all candles (high - low) and divide by number of candles.
            for all candles it is high - low even if candle is red.
            high ATR means high fluctioation.
            with ATR you decide how much money you can make on that stock.
            you can't make 1 dollar profit on a stock that only moves 0.3 dollars a day on average.

    risk and money managment:
        it is most important aspect of trading.
            expectancy:
                the expected value is an anticipated value for a given investment. 
                    dot product of probability and outcome.
                it is the value which you approach if you do experiment infinite times.
                for a prifitable investment, expectancy is more than investment.
                in other words, the investment shouldn't be as good as gambling.

                if you play against probability, you might get lucky a few times, but in the long run, you will lose.

                think of it is the probability of going up/down when you buy sell stocks.
                buy stocks where probability is not fifty fifty.
                the farther things are from fifty the better.

        an uneducated buying of stocks is a gamble.
        gambling is random.
        educted betting is gambling based on postive expected value.
            it would make you money in long run.
        casino is gambling, educated betting is buying stocks.
        stock market is a zero sum game, for every dollar you make, someone loses a dollar.
            the goal is to make your odds high by your strategy.
        

        batting average: the average probability that a trader is right= number of profitable trades/ total trades.

        win/loss ratio: the ratio of average prifitable tafes over the average unprofitable trades.
            eg if on average your trades gain 10% and on average you lose 5% then it is 2:1 
        even 65%  batting average is gold. don't root for 100%.

    risk managment:
        risk: an action or an activity that has a potential to go wrong.
        systematic risk: undiversifiable risk / volatility/ market risk is inherent to the entire market.
        unsystematic risk: specific risk / diversifiable risk or residual risk. it is specific to industry. eg if oil industry is doing bad then the risk is only affecting it. it can be reduced through diversification. CEO resigining is a unsystematic risk. diversification is buying different stocks of different kinds so overall you are less in risk.
        systematic risk is not diversifiable, as it is true for whole market.

        risk acceptance:
            you accept the risk. that you could lose money and you understand it.
        risk avoidance:
            i can't take the risk so you don't want to trade.
        risk limitation:
            stop losses: if loss is more than 10% you sell doesn't matter what.
            you can put it below the support.
        risk transferance:
            there are certain products that you could buy to reduce risk they are called options.
        
        risk avoidance and risk limitation is most used ones.
    
    money managment:
        maximum risk per position should never exceed 5%.
        2% is ideal.
        there is a very real probability that you take 10 losing trades in a row.

        when you lose 20%, in next deal you have to make more than 20% to get back to zero.
        hence it gets hard to get to zero as you lose more and more money.

        hence try to not lose like 50% or even 20%.

        hence don't lose more than 2% in a trade.
        hence you can survive fluctiovations.
        when you are small capital, you might need to take more risk. But as you become bigger the risk has to be smaller.

        don't think it will go up, if it goes down then sell.
            just accept the loses at that moment.
        
    position sizing:
        combining risk and money management.
        basically how many shars to buy and how to buy them.
        different methods.
        simple position sizing:
            position size = (max loss per trade)/ amount you can lose per share. amount you can lose per share can be seen from chart, just see the difference between buying price and stop loss. and position size will give you how many shares you should buy.

    Trading psychology:
    --------------------
        it is more important than risk managment, technical analysis, having solid strategy.
        it is hard to handle your emotions, to handle loss and profit.
        most of the times you lose because you couldn't handle your emotions.
        treat gain and lose rationally. don't lose yourself if you lose money.

        loss aversion:
            one of the most prominent biases.
            the theory states: losses have a bigger negative impact than equivalent gains have positive impact. (2 times more negative)

            you often make decisions based on what you lose and not what you gain.

            when you have a gain say 10k and you lose 5k out of it, you don't sell as profit doesn't mean much. as they feel like they lost 5k and they don't look at the 5k they made.

            loses feel worse for same value of gain.
        
        endowment effect:
            the theory that states: that we place more value on something that we own than if we didn't own it.
            hence the longer you own something, the more you value it, which adds to value that is not real.
            as soon as you buy a stock you would feel it is going to go up for no reason.
            so be strong emotionally.
        
        status quo bias:
            the theory states: we prefer staying in our current situation/state than changing situation/state.
            there is a base line and you don't want to go up or down from that.
            eg you don't want to change your social media platform that you are using. or the programming langauge.
            you hold to a stock that is not changing for far too long and you lose money in the long run.
        anchoring effect:
            the theory states: That we anchor to the first decision/information when making subsequent decisions.
            eg you hear a news that some company is making amazing drug for cancer so you buy the stock. and it doesn't go up and just fluctioates a little bit but you still stick to that nes even if hte ceo sold shares.

            consider every other information and evaulate farely the value of your stock.

        confirmation bias:
            theo theory states: that we search for information tht confirms our beliefs.
             eg googling: why is milk bad for me.
        genes and instutions:
            humans have been on earth for 200,000 years.
            instincts come from our genes.
            eg loss avertion
            we have things in our genes to protect ourselves, which we no longer need.
            and we need to unlearn these behaviours.
            and money represents, shelter, status to us right now.
        greedy: you don't sell on time. you fear that it would keep on going up and you would miss that.
        fear: you sell quickly as you start losing. And you regret later.

        HENCE DON'T LET FEAR CONTROL YOU, LET THE CALCULATIONS AND STRATEGY DRIVE YOUR decision.

    tools:
        finviz, you can see heatmap there as well, it also has screener to see different kinds of stocks for your portfolio.
        



    

youtube:
    going public can take upto 4 months.
    it is no good having a 100% of company worth nothing.
    feel good about diluting your equity,
    during dilution each shareholders percentage is equally diluted.
    dilution is what happens at IPO.     