Steve Martin's Masterclass:
    know that there is room for you out there in the world, and you don't need to have special gift.
    be where the comedy is, because when it is your turn to be picked, you need to be at pointing distance.
    you gotta put yourself in position so you can be chosen.
    Be so good that they can't ignore you.
    Talk about, what hasn't been talked about, and there is always a new thing to talk about out there as the world is changing.
    think about comedy all the time. Always think about the joke.
    to gather the material, educate yourself, become informed and intelligent, learn about things, you get a greater vocabalary. Learning history etc.
    Material is everywhere. A million things happen to you everyday and you can make value out of it.
    Mine your friends for material.
    Think what does the society need right now, what needs to be discussed that is not being discussed. People dig that.
    Ask yourself, what is the state of the nation, find a whole that the climate of the nation has, that the climate of the nation has or even your community.
    say something that is in everyone's mind.


Judd apatov:
    stories of flawed people trying to do good is amazing.
    watch a lot of comedy.
    but you need to have your own pov and angle.
    develop your sense of humour.
    standup gets better as things get personal.
    just tell about your life.
    consider a situation from every point of view.
    keep trying over and over again.
    big laughs come out of familiarity.
    you can talk about anything.
    think about all the jokes about a certain things, like a mirror or something.
    you can then pick a few out of them.
    write a lot of jokes.
    start with a punch line and write a story around it.
    you can write punchlines as well.
    you can have a 10 minute long story.
    sit at a desk everyday for a few hours.
    you have to be a writer and a comedian.
    add new things to your set.
    add 1 minute of new material to your 7 minutes.
    it is like a script, you would need to rewrite.
    it is like editing.
    you keep adding jokes to make a routine eventually.
    a standup is like a speech.
    you eventually get a set that is 1 hour long.
    get any stage time you can.
    every time you get up, you get better.
    do open mics and then the clubs.
    be patient and strong.
    talk to audience, as if you are telling them something interesting.
    stage fright is about future, wondering if you are going to do well.
    its okay, if it is not going well.
    the goal is not to please the audience.
    if you are bombing then audience is as uncomfortable as you are.
    be patient: it takes time.
    it would take you 7 years to find a voice.
    don't stop, keep swimming.
    use personnal stories in your comedy.
    
    