YALE:

lecture 1: Listening to music
    pop music/popular music: all music that is popular, one with mass appeal.

    where in brain is music processed:
        temporal lobe is where your hearing goes.
        hence from both sides.
        music is muscle memory.
        it is about processing sound.
        music is intrincically sound.
    
    classical music: earlier music.
    composer:
        person who writes music.
        composer produces composition.
    music director:
        puts different kinds of music together to build a whole song.
    you can figure out the emotion from the music.

    two dimentions/axis of music:
        pitch and time
    
LECTURE 2: intruments and musical genres.
    genre: type of music.
    symphonies: have 4 movements(parts of song)
    



youtube:
    tempo: speed/pace of song. It could be fast or slow.
    beat: unit of time in music.
        hence tempo is measured in bpm or beats per minute.
        common BPM 40 to 250.
    
    note: pitch/frequency and its duration.
        most pleasant frequencies: ABCEFG 
        any frequency that is multiple of these is also considered the same note.
        eg 440 and 880 hz are both A 
        we distinquish between these by name and octave number, like A4 A5 are from different octaves.
    
    on an 88 key piano
        first key is A0 till G0 and then A1 
        sharp means going up and flat means going down.
        gap between two keys is called half step or semitone.
        there are 12 semitones in an octave.
        E doesn't have sharp hence F doesn't have flat, and C doesn't have flat.
        and 12 semitones start with C then 2 consecutive blacks then a gap then 3 consecutive blacks.

    scales is a collection of notes that sound good together.
        there are usually 2 types of common scales, major and minor. major sounds happy and minor sounds sad.
        a scale has a root note which it is named after eg. Cmaj

    chords: multiple notes played in harmony at the same time.
        a chord consisting of three notes is called a triad.
    
    chromatic scale: a scale of 12 semitones.
    modern tones are equally tempered, that is ratio of one note to next is fixed as about 1.059 or twelth root of 2.

jason allen music theory: levels 1,2,3:::
-----------------------------------------
    Your ear trumph's the Music theory, that if it sounds cool then it sounds cool. Let your ear be the guide. If you don't break the rules, everything will sound fine and boring.

    staff paper: paper with 5 lines(4 gaps) on it called the staff. You write music on it. Just download staff paper pdf and print it. Or just use a software so you can even play it, eg Sibelius, Finale, MuseScore (free and open source). These programs are called notation editors just like text editors.

    sheet music is just you telling the performer what to do and you are being hyper specific. The dots say what notes to play and the bars say how fast or the rythm of the notes.

    The dots(black dots)/pitch:     
        the vertical resistor symbol means there is no note there, or rest.
        we alternate between having a note on the line and in between the lines.
        FACE are the spaces from bottom up, and you can figure out other from the relative positions. Hence the lines from bottom to up are EGBDF = every good boy deserves fun.
        and notes cirlce around ABCDEFGABCDEFGABC...
    
    Pitch Class:
        pitches/notes that are multiple of each other belong to same pitch class, there are 7 pitch classes.
    
    Octaves:
        Octave means 8, there are 7 unique pitch class and they repeat with eight. Any note from the same Pitch class are so similar that they sound same.
        playing same note from different octaves as a chord sounds good.
    
    An interval is a space between two notes(in a chord that is vertical distance in terms of frequencies) eg an interval of octave (which sounds good)

    The piano keyboard:
        piano is the most ubiquituos instrument, you can see the notes.
        middle C C4 is often written as reference to see in which octave you are.
        E# and B# do not exist same way Fb doesn't exist and Cb doesn't exist (sharp and flat)
        accidentals: # or b next to a note.
        a half step is the smallest amount of space you can move. The alternate is whole step, taking two half steps. E to F is a half step, though typically it is from a note to its sharp. A whole step form E is to F#.
        half step and whole step are also an examples of intervals.(semitone and tone)
        consonance and dissonance: consonance is stable whereas dissonance is clash.
        overtone: other frequencies that you produce along with the fundamental one.
        last key on 88 piano is C8 and first key is A0, and there are eight iterations.
    
    staff:
        each rectangular box is called a bar or a measure.
        ledger lines are lines you get outside the normal lines, when you go too high or too low.

        That & symbol tell us the range we are in, i.e is how high or low.
        That & symbols is called a  Treble clef, Where the tremble means upper mid range.

        clefs:
            Treble is around c4 and above it some 12 keys, though it is not a hard and fast rule.
            Treble clef is sometimes also called the G clef.
            There is also a base clef, lke a comma and two dots, It is in lower frequencies.
            base clef is also called F clef. and F is on the line between the dots.
            usually we stick with one or two clefs.
        
        Note:
            every note symbol has a note head(dot) and the stem(the vertical line)
            the stem tells us the rhythm and the head tell us which note it is.
            to write sharp or flat note you would put C for example and then click on # and you get # before that note and that is the representation of that sharp note. Even though #comes before the note in notation we still call it C sharp.
            same way for flats b and then the note sumple. Remember b flat and C sharp are same.
            c4 and middle c are the same thing. Although for other instruments middle doesn't make sense.
            there is another symbol like a square, which means natural, which means the way it is, it is used after a bar if needed because bar turns off the sharps and flats so you might not be sure about things there.
            
        writing rhythms:
            there are flags, beams and dots.
            if there is just one, we flag it and when there are more than one we beam them.
            dot means getting a longer duration.
            more beams meaning faster it goes.
            whole note: takes all four beats or one bar represented as a whole.
            for half of each we have half note, hence note gets 2 beats.
            similarly we have quarter one which is 1 beat.
            we can have eight note, sixteenth.
            normal notes are quarter notes.
            eight notes are connected by bars.
            you count like one two and three four, where (two,and) are eight beats.
            you can even go like one and two and three and four.
            sixteenth has 2 beams and 32nd and 3 beams.
            for sixteenth we say one e and a two e and a 
            a dot adds half of it to itself, eg 2 to 3 and 4 to 6.
            a quarter beat to 1.5 beat
            flag is one eight one note.
            sixteenth is flag with two sheets,
            
            rests:
                bar with line on top: rest for 4 beats.
                bar with lin on bottom: rest for 2 beats.
                vertical resistor: quarter rest.
                y like symbol: 1/2
                two y's: 1/4 and so on.
            that 44 symbol(time signatures/meter signatures) means there are 4 beats per bar.
                top number says how many beats per bar.
                3/4 means 3 beats in one bar similary 5/4 means 5 beats in a measure.
                bottom number means what kind of note is a beat, and 4 means quarter note.
                3/8 means 3 eight notes in a bar possible.
            
            tied note: like a tied on top it means don't stop at the bar, it ties them toghter.

            instead of using note names like ABC etc, you can use do re mi, where do is C 
            1 measure = 1 bar.

        two dots and the thick double line means repeat back to oppisite of it.
        1 and 2 there means for second repeat only play till there.
        rall=rallatando means slow down.
        a tempo means the tempo of before the rall, these are different tempo's.
    dynamics: loudness.
        hair pin: means get louder and louder gradually.
        reverse of it means get quiter and quiter over these measures.
        slur: that curve over notes, means to treat them as a string of notes instead of individual notes.
        accidentals: sharps and flats
    once you have an accidental, it stays for the rest of the measure.
    pickup measure, first measure that doesn't have all beats.
    comma is for for example flute players, to take breath. fine and dc fine means repeat from beginining till fine again, without loops.
    form: the order of things like loops etc also.
    imslp.org you get a lot of scores to read.
    key signature if sharp then it could be sharp through the whole piece, they are put after the clefs.
    reading the rhythms is hard. do it by da da da da see if you sound similar, you can use counting.





    


    
    