adobe premier pro  video editor.
if  your video is shaky:
    open premier pro, click on new project, type name for you project, import media to start, add it to new timeline(video sequence) click on effects, search on warp, under distort click on warp stabilizer, and drag and drop it onto your video clip, it opens effect control panel, now if you play it it would be smooth buttery motion, you can click on fx button to turn on and off the effect, you can change from smooth motion to no motion.

    this is one of the many effects that we will learn.

click on premier pro to open a project or create new project.
set a name for your project, you set where to save it, you can choose compute power as well that your device has, keep other settings to defualts, scratch disks button means where would the edited stuff get saved so keep it to same as project. and now adobe premier pro will open up.

you want to have four panels up there, and to set it that way go to window, then to workspace and click on editing and that is the workdspace we will be working in.

each panel can have multiple tabs.
bottom left panel is project panel with a tab for effects as well.
project panel is your files, it is where you keep your files organised, effects is where you have audio, video effects and transitions.
on right side of project panel you have tool bar for editing.

bottom right panel is the timeline panel, there you will have video and audio tracks, like v1,v2 and son on and A1, A2 and so on.

to the right of timeline panel is the audio monitor that tell you if audio is playing.

top right is the program monitor: it shows you the video result so far that you can play, it is the final product so far.
you can press space bar to play or pause.

top left is the source, effect control and audio track mixer tabs.
source monitor is where you preview your clips, you double click on your clip and it opens in your source monitor for both audio and video.
effects control is where you change settings of an effect that you are applying.
to add audio track mixer, just go to window and click on audio track mixer.
you can drag and drop tabs from one panel to another.

you can even create a new panel for your tab.
you can click on window and then save the workspace that you can open same way later by clicking on window and then on workspaces to apply.

to import footage: 
    just double click in project panel  or ctrl + i 
    or you can just drag and drop.
    you can import one, or multiple or whole directory.
    you can create new directory from here by clicking on new bin in premier project and move stuff there.
    create a folder for video, audio, photos and then import them.
    within video you can create multiple folders for multiple camera's 
    you can create b-roll folder for video's for footage that describes what the narrator is taking about, or the footage that one cuts to.
    there is no set rules, just follow any convention.
    you can rename things within premier pro as well.
    you can see info about your files, like framerate etc for video and same for audio.
    media brower in window, if that tab is open it will show you preview of videos that are in your folder so you can know, what is what within premier pro.
    
editing your videos:
    pick the footage that is going to be used the most and drag and drop to the new button on the buttom and it would be added to the timeline.
    in sequence tab you can see sequence settings, like frame rate, frame size etc.
    you can move video and audio clip from one track to another by dragging, like from v1 to v2 and so on.
    you can zoom in and zoom out in timeline.
    you can click on file and new and then new sequence to add the video to timeline as well.
    you can set frame rate and frame size for you sequence.
    you can drag your video to empty space to create say 4th video track.
    now you can drag other videos to timeline
    multiple tracks are like multiple cameras they are at same positions in different tracks.
    you now need to sync these tracks, first you zoom in on timeline using + button 
    to synch audio from both tracks, you click on space right of S and it expands the wave forms, and you can sync them.
    or you can synchronize by setting two of them and then right click and then synchronize and then audio. works best with two audio files.
    instead of selecting one by one, you can click and drag to select multiple.
    ctrl + Z to undo.
    you can play the video in source tab, and from there you can move audio only or video only to timeline or add only small part of video to timeline. you click on mark in and mark out.
    from source you can insert and it would insert into v1 whereever your timeline ponter is and you can override and it would be added to new track.
    if you want them directly on new track, then you hae to click on first column and make them v1 for both audio and video. and then override or insert.

    syncing audio and video:
        that you record from different devices.
        first way: add audio and video to timeline, and select both and click on synchronize, audio then mix and ok and they will be synchronized. but if you zoom you will realize it is off by half a frame, if you clap/ that why they clap.
        so basically, you record audio from both camera and other microphone and you use these two audio's to sync and then you turn off the camera audio.
        select audio and then nudge if forward or backward or press ctrl + arrays to do so.
        on timeline enable show audio time units, and now you can zoom in as much as you want and sync perfectly.
        you can move video only by one frame, but the audio movements are too smooth.
        now turn off time units.
        now right click on camera video and undo enable.
        now select all, right click, and unlink , and now select all, right click , and link.
        now they are linked and if you make cuts, the audio would still be in sync.
    
    editing tools:
        you can drag videos to the end for merging.
        in timeline, if you click on end points of clips and move, you can crop them that way.
        