first thing, you need is a camera.
second thing is a subject or story.
next thing you need is light, which could be aritifical or natural.
next important thing is audio.
the next step is post-production/editing.
next step is the distribution of your video.

what kind of video is decided by the goal and the target audience.
vimeo for creative filmmakers.

first step is to have a really good story.
your video should be as long as the story needs.
people prefer scenes with multiple shots.

pre-production: making a plan. Whats where and how, the whole timeline and budget.
have a nice title.
you would have crew and equipment: it could be a single person or multiple people.

you can buy a dslr, and lenses.
lenses are very important. you great different kinds of shots from it.

audio is as important as video.
use external microphone.
drone are amazaing.

exposure: your video is bright enough, how much light is in the frame.
shutter speed: slow shutter speed allows less light. but it also decides how blurry motion is. 1/50th shutter is nice.
F-Stop/ aperture: how much light are you allowing in. More aperature means everything is in focus, and it increases the depth.

ISO means sensitivity to light, or how bright things would look.

aspect ratio: the size of your frame: 16:9 is how tv's and screens now a days are, threatres are even more wider.
shots can be wider or medium by zooming in.
wider shot is used to show the viewer where you are, medium shot is used to make the viewer connect with your character, used for interview and dialogues, then there is close shot with complete zoom. You can zoom in digitally and lose some quality, with closeup there are more emotions, and more connection as you see the eyes the face etc. Insert shot is zoom shot on different things to give the user about the details of the things like the title of the book etc.

if you are shooting yourself, put camera at your eye level, that is best place to put it, and put yourself in the center or in one third if background is important, and put yourself in medium shot so you are not too small or too big to look at.
you can use something as tall as you for reference when you are shooting yourself.

you can buy a background paper roll for your plain background.
A-ROLLvs B-ROLL: the main footage are A-Roll, and B-ROll are other relavant stuff as inserts, you don't have to do both simulataneously. Just shoot everything that would help to tell the story.
hence having a second camera can always be very helpful.

get a shotgun microphone.
resolution: like 1080p etc.
fps: 24 frames for movies and 30 for tv and 60 for slow mo.
first two things you check are resolution and fps, then come the shutter speed, F-stop and iso 
for 24 fps, best shutter speed is 1/48 or 1/50 basically double the fps.
wave hands in front of camera to check for motion blur.
in dream sequence you though want motion blue.
for photography you may want to have even higher shutter speed but not for video as the things would look too sharp and not give a good feel.
fstop defines how much would be in focus, less means only a few things and rest blurred.
look at the camera instead of yourself.
you can keep using same lens even if your camera changes.

