New York Vocal Coaching:
    Breathing:
        1. High breaths:
            long inhales and long exhales, not recommanded.
        2. Abodminal breaths:
            this way your chest doesn't lift, this is recommanded, it gives you better control over your exhale.
        3. rib breath is also good.
        4. combination of both rib breath and Abodminal breath is the best 
        try lip trills with low and high frequency. The goal is to hit any note at constant rate of outflow of air.

        exercise for breathing:
            best one is the Hisss, ssssssssssssssssssssss,1 minute would be cool.
            this way you prevent air from passing too fast.
            this builds  a breath support.
        
        the goal is to breath in quickly and breathe out slowly.
        don't squeeze your upper abs during breathing.
        belly breath helps diaphragm to expand better.

controlling your vocal cords:
    the longer we make our vocal folds the higher the frequency.
    the shorter we make our vocal folds the lower the pitch.
    the farther/depressed they are, the breathier voice will sound.
    the more compressed or connect they are, the tight the voice would sound.

    exercise to control the pitch or to shorten or lengthen the vocal cord:
        the pitch wave: say hmmmmmmm hmmmmmmmm hmmmmmmmmmm and ride the pitch wave by raising the pitch while saying hmmmmmmm, and then ride the pitch wave back down.
        Ah-ha exercise: to get familar with compression and decompression, breath and say Ah-Ha quickly and hold your breath again.holding your breath is compression and realeasing it quickly is decompression.
            or say aa aa aa quickly for compression and ha ha ha  for decompression.
            then aaaaaaaaahaaaaaaaa to go back and forth.
        say A E I O U with compressed and decompressed vocal cords.
        do vocal fry also with AEIOU.

controlling your larynx:
    it can move up and down, it goes up when you swallow and it goes down, when you yawn.
    for up pitch it rises for down pitch it goes down, but it doesn't need to. It is a tone changer( quality of your voice)
    but larynx is not a pitch changer.
    raising makes it bright, and lowering makes it dark.
        exercise:
            take a yawn, and make sound, to lower.
            ultimate goal is to lower it without need to yawn to lower it.
            once you can lower it without yawning, next is to sustain it there.
            next step is to make voice without moving it up.

            the wow:
                to make it go up.
                swallow and say wow.
            ay yo:
                ay will raise the larynx and yo will lower.

controlling your tongue:
    back and front of tongue can move by itself.
    vowel e has back of the tongue at its highest forward position, whereas a has its lowest position.
    we want to make this movement smooth:
        exercise:
            keep your front tongue at the back of your teeth so it doesn't move.
            don't move your jaw.
            move from eeeeeeeeee to aaaaaaaaaaa as gradually as possible 
            and go also in opposite direction.
        for front of tongue:
            move fron thhhhh and sssss and in oppsite and thzzzzzzzzz to szzzzzzzzz 
            and ngggggggggggggggggg 
        gargling sound makes back of tongue good.

controllng soft pallet:
    exercise:
        jaw dropped, and mouth open try all combinations of breath in and out from mouth and nose.
        now repeat the same and make sound simultaneaous.
        look in the mirror what happens.

        next exercise: NG-AH 
            move gradually between nasal and oral 
            front of your tongue in lower part.

        learn to speak through nose entirely and entirely through mouth.
        try opera singing.
        


vocal function exercises:
    warm up: 
        take a good breath and say eeeeeeeeeeeeeee, as long as you can and keep your best pitch.
    stretching your vocal folds:
        take a breath, and say ooooooou or oooooooup in increasing loudness.
    to contract your vocal folds:
        breath and say ooooooooooooo ro nooooooooooooo in incresaing loudness, with no break in your voice.
    to make vocal folds come together on different pitches:
        start with low pitch and say ohhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh in increasing pitch and repeat.
    do twice in a row and twice a day.

daily articulation exercises:
    for the muscles of your mouth.
        1. yawn with your mouth and make sound. Do it 10 times atleast.
        2. lip trills: like how raju rastogi starts scooter. Lips not too tight or not too loose. The goal is to keep it longer and longer.
        3. tongue trills: errrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr
        4. almost like tongue twistters:
                
                Bah dah gah pah dah gah.
                boh doh goh poh doh goh.
                boo doo goo poo doo goo.
                bee dee gee pee dee gee.
                bay day gay pay day gay.


                mah nah lah thah vah zah
                moh noh loh thoh voh zoh
                moo noh loo thoo voo zoo
                mee nee lee thee vee zee
                may nay lay thay vay zay

                this in one round, and repeat whole thing, you want clearity and speed, as fast as possible.
        
        these are warmup exercises for before you speak.


voice training exercises: peter baker 
    to improve your voice means to make it best version of yourself.
    you have vocal cords, that vibrate to produce sound.
    the relaxed the muscles the deeper the voice.
    relaxation is best exercise to get deeper voice.

    humming exercises are brilliant for relaxation hence getting deeper voice.
    say hmmmmmmmmm in as deep voice as possible without breaking.
    try to open your throat as much as possible.

    sat Q E Q R  to exercise your mouth properly.


from opera singers:
    some speak from higher register and some speak from lower registers, the better use the middle register.
    you want your voice to not come from your nose or throat, but from your mouth, in singing it is called the mask.
    Hence always speak from the mask.
    Lip trills is best way to speak from mask.
    breath as much air as possible and slowly release during lip trills and during speaking.
    never punch your words, although sometimes you do need emphasis.
    atleast in the begining of sentence, make it smooth.
    clear your throat before speaking.
    don't yell and scream, it destroys your vocal cords permanently.
    prevent swollen vocal cords, stay hydrated.
    your volume should be slightly below your natural volume.
    pace should be sligtly slower than normal.
    avoid uh, emm, etc during speaking.
    having good speaking posture.

Science:
    how humans produce sound:
        four gateways of speaking:
            1. mouth: more open for vowels and more closed for consonants.
            2. larynx/voice box: it is at the top of your throat, inside the larynx, voice is produced by vibrating vocal cords. Voice is just conrolled exhaling.
            3. nose: if your breath escapes via nose or not. The cover/soft pallet there closes when you speak but opens briefly for nasly sound.
            4. tongue: 
        respiration: you breath out.
        phonation: your larynx modify the way air comes out.
        articulation: vocal track modifies by several articulators.
        when we speak, we breath quickly and we let air out slowly like 7% 93%, wheras during breathing, it is 50/50
        larynx acts as a value, that can close and open. Vocal folds == vocal cords.
        vibration of vocal folds is sound. Average male vocal folds vibrate at around 100 times per second.
        womens voice at round 200 cycles per second.
        by default the vocal folds are open and hence no voice.
        after vocal cords, the air is in vocal tract.
        tongue, lips uvula, etc are the ones that make sound articulate.

    


Garimas good life:
    voice training for actors:
        your can modulate your voice using vocal resonators.
            stomach, chest, throat, nose 
            initially it would look fake, but you would perfect it later.

            exercise:
                oooooooooooooo to vibrate your front.
                gggggggggggggg to vibrate your back.
                mmmmmmmmmmmmmm to vibrate yoru top.

            pitch and scale:
                pitch means frequency and scale means loudness.
                news anchors use same ptich throughout.
                your need to understand the pitch and scale of your scene.
                
                try to say a kavita in same pitch but in different scales.
                learn sa re ga ma pa da ne sa.

            breathing technique:
                breath in and breath out.
                beech beech mai saans lena chori karke.

                huh huh huh huh from your stomach is also a good exercise.

        improve speech and diction:
            read each word with stress, you can read newspaper, loudly, each word individually.
            you can put a pen in your mouth vertically.


own:
    read from paper fast.
    hindi/urdu, english