    entry-level cloud certification for Microsoft Azure.
    reffered by its course code AZ-900.
    its about knowing the core services, and having a bit of hands on experience with the azure portal.
    there is fundamentals, associate, expert, speciality certifications.
    you can take any of these in any order.

    AZ-900 is obtained by sales and management to help inform vp'sor ceo's reasons for their company to utilize microsoft azure. And for developers to familiarze themselves.

    for developer it doesn't mean much.
    8 hours of study would be enough to qualify.
    you take it from test centers or online, microsoft has partnered with pearson vue, it is called a proctored exam. There would be a proctor there looking at you.

    memorize the key information, do hands on, practise.

    to pass you have to score >700 out of 1000
    there are 40 to 60 questions.
    60 minutes.
    valid for 24 months.

    a cloud provider can hundreds of cloud services.
    for Iaas: compute, storage, networking, databases.

        cloud computing is not just about computing.

    Microsoft is the company and windows is a product of it.
    Microsoft Azure is Microsoft's cooud provider service, commonly called Azure.
    Azure means bright blue color of hte cloudless sky.

    CSP's: cloud service provider.

    benefits of cloud:
        cost effective, Pay as you go: PAYG.
        you can go global and just choose your region.
        secure.
        reliable.
        scalable.
        elastic.

    types of cloud computing:
        SaaS: product run and managed by service provider.
            eg gmail, office etc. it is for customers.
        PaaS: focus on th deployment and management of yoru apps. don't worry about the hardware or OS.
              elastic beanstalk, heroku, google app engine. these are for developers.
        IaaS: the basic building block, don't worry about IT staff, data centers, and hardware.
             provides access to networking features, computers, and data storage space.
               eg azure 
    
        for on premise you are responsible for everything, for IaaS, csp takes virtualization you get to use OS and everything on top of that, for Paas csp manages teh runtime and you manage data and application, for saas csp manages everything.

    cloud deployment model:
        public cloud: everything is running on cloud, called cloud native or public cloud.
        private clold: everything on company's data center, also called on premise.
        openstalk is opensource software to run it.
    
    hybrid cloud: using both and they are connected together with a network. eg using express route.

    private is most expensive.
    security is not guranranteed in private cloud.
    
    cross cloud: multi cloud.
        eg Azure Arc for Amazon EKS Gcp kubernetes engine.
    
    TC0: total cost of ownership:
        on premise is expensive.
        upto 75% saving when you go to cloud.
    
    capex vs opex:
        capex: capital expensitures: spending money upfront on physical infrastuture, eg server cost.
        opex: operational expenditure: only non physical cost, like leasing software, computer usage and storage usage etc.

    
    Cloud Architecture terminologies:
        Availability: service remains avaialable HA: high avaialable.
        scalability: your ability to grow rapidly or unimpeded.
        elasticity: your ability to shrink and grow to meet the demand.
        fault tolerance
        disaster recover. Hightly durable, DR.
    
    to remain avaialable, we have different avaialability zones. that is different physical locaitons.
    azure load balancer evenly distributes traffic to different abaialiity zones.

    vertical scaling: getting a bigger server.
    horizontl scaling: adding additional servers.

    high elasticity: automatic to go up and down.
    scale out increase servers, scale in remove servers.

    Azure VM scale sets are used to automatically increase or decrease in response to demand or a defined schedule.
    SQL server stretch database: dynamically stretch warm and cold transactional data from Microsoft SQL server 2016 to microsoft azure.

    evolution of computing:
        dedicated > vms > containers >  functions 
        for vms we have hypervisor.
        functions are also called serverless computer, you upload piece of code and choose the amount of memory and duration. you only care for code and data. it is cost effective.
    
    regions and geographies:
        a region is a grouping of multiple data centers(Availability zones)
        Azure has 58 regions accross 140 countries.
        
        A geography is a discreet market of two or more regions that preserves data residency and compliance boundries.

        Azure Geographies:
            United states 
            Azure Government(US)
            Canada
            Brazil
            Mexico
        data cannot move from one geograhy to another.

        region names are like US East 1, Norway East.
        you get you choose a region when you launch a resource.
        azure.microsoft.com

    paired regions:
        each region is paired with another region 300 miles away.
        Only one region is updated at a time to ensure no outage.
        so we will have no downtime.
        also helps with disaster recovery.
        Azure Geo redandant storage GRS: replicates data to a secondary region automatically ensuring that data is durable even in the event that the primary region isn't recoverable.
        eg Canada central and it is paired with Canada East.

    region types and service avaialablity:
        not all azure cloud services are avaialable in every region.
        there could be infrastuture reasons or compliance reasons.
        there are Recommanded regions and alternate region.
        Recommanded region provides boradest range of services. Alterante region labeled as other in azure.

    GA: general avaialablity, is when a serive is considered ready to be used publicly by everyone.

    azure cloud services are of three categories for when it would be avaialable:
        foundational: When GA or immedietely or in 12 months in Recommanded and alternate regons.
        mainstream: may become Availabile in alternate regions based on customer demand.
        specialized: based on customer demand only.
    
    special regions:
        to meet compliance or legal reasons, they give them own region.
        eg US gov virgnia, etc  china east and china north.
        it is not for everyone to use.
    
    avaialability zones:
        AZ: is physical location made up of one or more data centers.
        a datacenter is a building that contains hundreds of computers.

        a region generally contains 3 Availability zones.
        datacenters are islated from each other but close enough for low latency.
        3 for high avaialability.
        AZ1 AZ2 AZ3 are different avaialability zones.

    AZ supported regions:
        not every region has support for avaialability zones.
        these regions are known as alternate or other.
        Recommanded regions are supposed to have at least 3 AZ's.
        usually these are new and in time more AZ's would be added.

    fault and update domain:
        an Availability zome is a combination of fault domain and update domain.
        fault domain:  a logical grouping of hardware with single point of failure.
        update domain: hardware used to stay online when we update or upgrade.
        avaialablity set: grouping to ensure that vm's you place in avaialablity set can avoid downtime.
        each vm is assigned a fault domain and update domain.
        FD1 UD1 etc 
        all servers in a single rack have same fault domain.
        you create a avaialablity set with fault domains and update domans.
        update domain is the set of vms that are updated simulatenously.
        

youtube sushant:
    portal.azure.com 
    cloud:
        high Availability
        scalability: go up and down 
        elasticity: automatic
        fault tolerance: by replication in build.
    economics of scale:
        costs go down with very large scale, and efficiency is gained by csp's.
    capex is capital expenditure, it is the upfront cost.
    opex is the operational cost for services and products, no upfront cost.
    consumption based model: pay only for the resources you use.
    azure is public cloud.
    private cloud is owned and operated by the organization itself, they construct it within their own data center.
    private is more secure.
    hybrid like website on public and database in private, usually used for compliance.
    private cloud comes with up in capex, you maintain it and run it.
    these were types of clouds.
    saas paas etc are types of cloud services.
    shared responsibilty model: what cloud people manage and what you manage, and it changes from type of service to service.
        for iaas you get vm and up.
        for paas you only manage application and data, even runtime is managed by csp.
    costs are predictible in cloud.
    hybrid is most flexible.

    AZURE architecture and CORE services: 
        60+ regions 140+ countries avaialabile in.
        most regions among all csps.
        region pairs: each region is paired with another region within the geography atleat 300 miles away.except brazil one, and there is automatic replication between these pairs.
        azure geographies: discrete markets that preserve data residency and compliance boundries.
        availabiilty set are within a datacetner for failure proction.
        lift and shift: move one vm to another for run.
        avaialability zones: separate locations within a region.
        each avaialability zone has independent power and networking, and is isolated from other.
        Availability zones are connected to each other via a fast fiber optic cables.
        one region is priotised to recover as soon as possible.
        update domain: machines updated at a given set.
        fault domain: share rack of servers and are in fault all or none.
        you can choose your machines across Availability zones.
        resource group: container for web+db,vm,storage all in one group.
        you assign the resources o resource group first.
        you pick a region, where you want to keep your resource group.
        each resource has to belong to only one resource group, however resource from from other region can be in our resource group.
        you can move resource from one group to another.
        azure resource manager: ARM for configurating, management and deletion, you can use powersehell as well or use scripts. you can control access to arm.
        you can start and stop vm.
    vm scale set: for automatic scaling of identical vms.
    app services for paas.
    if you want to enter into vm you click on connect.
    azure container instances for container management, and thene there is azure kubernetes service.
    azure virtual network is within a single region.
    vpn gateway for secure communction between cloud and on premise.
    click on networking to create a virtualnetwork.
    you can assign this vnet to these virtual machines.
    rdp file downlaod to login to virtual desktop.
    
    azure storage:
        semi-structed data: json html etc 
        unstructured are like pdfs jpgs

    azure storage service for all kinds of storage services:
        IaaS: disks and files: for network file share.
        azure stable for structed data.
        queues for messages.
    you create a storage account. it should be named unique in whole azure.
    for blob you create a container and then upload a file to it.

    azure databases:
        azure cosmos db: distributed database.
        daas database as a service eg azure sql database.
        azure database migration: for migration to azure.
        query editor for sql queries.
        azure iot central: software as a service solution.
        azoure iot hub: for central meassage hub.
        azure synapse anlytics: for data ware house.
        azure mahchine learing studio was drag and drop based.
    yoiu can manage azure using portal,cli, powershell, cloud shell, azure mobile, azure rest api.
    azure advise would provide Recommandations.
    arm templates can be used to create vm's.
    azure app service is for app development.
    azure also has cdn.

    data center are made under regions.
    abaialiity set for availabiilty during maitnence.

    security:
        defense in depth: a layered apporach to securing coputer systems.
        physical security: to avoid access to data center.
        identity and access to avoid ddos.
        azure firewall: it checks ip address, you create firewall rules.
            FaaS: firewall as a service.
            azure application gateway also provides a firewall.
            WAF: web application firewall. for inbound traffic.
            you use static ip adress so you know which ip is from within and what is coming from outside.
        ddos: to santize unwanted netoewrk traffic.
        requests come from customer, then they go to azure ddos protection then to application gateway then to azure load balancer, then there is vpn gateway and our web apps.
        basic ddos is free, standard servicie adds more.

    network security groups nsg:
        filters netowrk traffic to and from azure resoucrs on virtual network.
        we set inbound and outbound rules for ip, ports and protocaol.

        application securty group ASG:
            for fitlering of servers with similar port requeirements, such as web servers.
        perimeter layer for ddos.
        you also create a network security groups.
    
    inbound rules: what requests can come in.
    outbound rules: what can go out.

    azure identity services:
        authentication: if it is you.
        authorization: what you can do.
    azure active directory: AD 
        microsoft azure's cloud based identity and access management service.
        authetication: eg mfa
        single sign on: single identity to a user.
        b2b and b2c 
    
    you can create groups for users in ad.
    you can enable mfa or disable or users.

    AIP: azure information protection:
        classifies and protets documetns, and emails, by applying labels.
        it is an azure service.
    azure threat proctection: ATP:
        for identifying detecting and investigating threats and malicious insider actions.

    azure security center: 
        a monitoring service that provides threat protction across al your azure and on premies sercives.
        automaticlaly applies your security policies.
        it uses machine learning.
        there is free tier and standard tier.
    
    azure key vault:
        for storing secrets.
        keys, certifcates etc.
        backed by hardwar security modules (hsm's)
    
    azure policy:
        is a service used to create assigna dn manage plicies used to enforce differen trules and effeectrs over resources.so they stay compliant iwht standard and service level agreements (sla's)
    
        you can apply a policy to whole resource groups,
        and it is marked compliant or non compliants.
    
    azure rbac: role based access control:
        you proviide access based on role.
        it is free.
        for databases etc.
        you can use whitelising ussing this.
        you can edit access control for each resource group.
    resouce locks:
        to prevent accidental delete or modify it.
        ReadOnly, and CanNotDelete.
        readonly you can only read.
        with cannt delete you can read and update.

    Azure blueprint:
        create reusable environment definitonst aht can recreate your azure resources like bm's and apply your policies.
        create assign and track.
    
    subcribtion:
        billing, access control, subscription limits.

    azure tags:
        metadata for yoru azure resourcaes, to logically organizes resources into a taxonomy.
        consits of a name value pair.
        useful for billing informationm.

    azure monitor:
        collect, analyze, and act on telemetry from loud .
        it tells your how your stuff is performing.
        for health and operations.
    
    azure service health:
        personalized gudances adn support and notifcicatons, it issue resolution updates.
        it shows status as well.
    
    microsoft offers set of compliance offerings:  like  cjis hipaa, csa star, iso, gdpr, nist.
        for when it comes to sensitive data.

    compliance mangager;
        workflow baed risk assessment toool in trust portat that supports our organizations regulatory compliance activities.
        it assigns and tracka and verifiyes compliance.
        privodes a scrore.
        
    micorsoft trust center:
        it is about how microshoft itself is working on compliance.
        service trust portal for that.
    monitor only shows you what is going on, service health gives Recommandations.
        lovkd are used for critical things.
        policy: rules.

    azure subcribtion: dev sub, test, sub, production sub. an account can hav eon eor more subscriptions.
        subscription accounts: free, pay as you go, enterprise agreement, student.
        free account 12 months, of 200 dollars credit.
        25 free servicies.
        you need a debit card.
    
    mangement groups:
        hierarchy: a mangement group can include mulitpl;e subscriptions, a subscription inherits conditons applied to management group, and 10,000 mangemnt grous can be supported in s a single directoyr.
        subscription have resource groups and resource grouphs have resources.

    enterprise people sign agreement with csp.
    web direct directly pay as publbic.
    csps ar other csps on top of azure.
    cost is effected by resource type, serivcies lcostion.
    zones are for billing purposes.
    tco caluculator is used when you are migrating to azure.
    azure pricing calculator can be used to estimate cost.
    azure cost management is free, it is for budget etc.
    tco caluculator: total cost of opeartooin.

    sla's: service level agreemetns: each product has an sla, like what happens when we fail. like performance gurarantees.
    if service fail you get credited.
    you mulitily slas in composite.
    there is preview and then general availiblity.
    azure billing is done monthly.

microsoft:
    multi-cloud: 2 or more public clouds.
    azure arc: set of technologies that help manage your cloud environment, doesn't matter what kind of cloud it is.
    SLA: service level agreement, it is what gurarantees we give for our services, represented as percentage. 100% is also possible. you get credit if not followed.
    each service has an sla for it.
    set templates ensure you meet corporate standards and Government regulatory requeirements.
    cloud based auditing to flag resources that aren't compliant.

    cost management:
        tco to calculate total cost of ownership for operatationg yoru solution on azure.
            yoiu define your current loads, etc.
        pricing calcular: to see the price for each service and make changes etc to have.
        azure adivsor: to monitor our cost and optimize.
        zone: grouping of geogrpahies for billing.
        advance booking and payment leads to dsicount.
        cost mangament is a service helps you mangae cost.
            you create alerts, you can do cost analysis. you see .
        
        tags for resource management.
    
    governance and compliance:
        azure blueprint lets you standarize cloud subscription or environment depolyments, instead of configure feature for ech new subscription, wiht azure blueprint you can define repeatabl settings and policicesthat ar eapplied to new subscriptions are created.

        each component in the blueprint definiton is called a artifact. they can have 0 or more parameters.

        azure policy is a service that enables you to create and manage polcies taht contorl or audit your resources. They are a bunch of rules to stay compliant with corporate standards.

        each policy is called an inititaive and you can have policies group level or resource level.
        azure policies are inherited.

        azure policy inititaive: grpu related policies together.
        rescour locks are also inherited.
        azure trust portal for microsoft's securit and privacy compliacne practises.

    azure advisor gives Recommandations.
    azure service health to know health of each resource: it has azure status, service health, resource health. azure status would tell you about outage. service health for servies and you can set alerts

    azure monitor: for collecting data on your resource and analyze data and visualize it.


