body language:
    how you move your body, and the position of different body parts.
    you could be sitting, standing, walking, running.
    you talk with your body.
    with status body language changes.
    with situation body langauge changes.
    where you are living defines your body langauge.
    which country you are from defines your body language signals.
    There is a body langauge of your characters, and then how your characters body language changes in different situations.
    spine work is important, spine speaks.
    where to put your hands also is a main thing.
    you can take inspiration from animals, statues, even non living things.

    start with how your character stands.
    do some stretching beforehand.


facial features for expressions:
    how open is your eye defines your emotions.
    your eyebrows define it.
    your nose, your lips etc.
    exercise your facial muscles, then they will move by their own during the acting.
    for your lips, do long and short like kiss.
    same for your eyes, move it in all directions. up down, left right.
    same for your eyebrows.
    same for nose.
    don't overact, use everyting moderately.
    if your have chiseled muscles, use minimal of your facial expressions.

    open your mouth big and small, jaw left and right, and chewing really big,
    same for your eyes.
    facial expressions are universal.
    you don't need to show teeth when you smile, but there are wrinkles near eyes and cheeks up.
    you open your mouth when you laugh and your gums show up, especially the upper ones.
    contempt is asymmetric, only one side of your face.
    disgust is symmetric 
    anger is eye brows down and lips tight.
    even concern is eye brows down.

    facial exercises:
        put some moisturiser on your and and do your facial massage with three middle fingers, massage your forehead, your eye brows, and rest of your face. Use your both hands. Go clockwise and anti clockwise.
        do some exercises for your lips.
        do everything symmetrically.
        