Huberman + Andy Galpin
----------------------
Lecture 1:
    goal of exercise: aesthetics + functionality(energy+performance etc)
    you have short term goal and long term maintenance goals.
    for each goal, there are different ways to achieve them.
    the methods are many, but the concepts are few.
    not just neuroplasticity, every body part has ability to adapt.
    
    Nine physiological adaptations:
        skill and technique: learning to move better
        speed: moving at better rate of acceleration.
        power: speed X force 
        force/strength: maximum level for one rep.
        muscular endurance: how many pushups can you do, muscular endurance tends to be localized to that muscle group, it is not general whole body thing.
        muscle hypertropy: appearance, how big is your muscle. 
        anaerobic capacity: upper heart rate.
        maximal aerobic capacity: maximum heart rate and true VO2 max.
        long duration: ability to sustain sub maximal work for long period like cardio, it exceeds 15 minutes.

    Fat loss etc are not training styles, they are byproduct of these nine, like some are effective for fat loss and some are not.

    History of exercise science:
        momentus.com for supplements.
        element elctrolyte drink contains all electrolytes: sodium, magnesium, potassium.
        eating healthy means you are not getting enough of these elctrolytes, drinkelement.com 
        to sleep, your body needs to drop 1-2 degrees of temperature, and waking up involves increasing temperature.
        skiers experiment:  VO2 max test was done.
            VO2 max is a measure of the maximum amount of oxygen that an individual can use during exercise. It is considered to be one of the best indicators of cardiovascular fitness and endurance.
            VO2 max is typically measured in milliliters of oxygen per kilogram of body weight per minute (ml/kg/min). The test to measure VO2 max usually involves exercise on a treadmill or stationary bike while wearing a mask that measures oxygen and carbon dioxide levels in the breath.
            A higher VO2 max means that the individual can take in and utilize more oxygen during exercise, which allows them to work at a higher intensity and for a longer duration before fatigue sets in. VO2 max is affected by a number of factors, including genetics, age, sex, and fitness level.
            if it is below 18, it is hard for you to live by yourself.
            the skiers had 35-38 that is about a college male.
            resting heart rate for very fit people is low: like 60, above that you are unfit.
            for vo2 max you need equipment.
            cosistency over 50 years got these 90 years there.
            the down side: their strength and functionality was no more superior to their counter parts.
            hence endurance exercise would help you with vo2 max at old age but not with strength etc.
            monozygous twins: identical twins, they have same dna, an egg was fertilized and split and gave birth to two humans.
        monozygous experiment:
            same results, 
            they had same amount of muslce mass.
            non exerciser was a bit fater.
            the muscle quality of non exerciser was better.
            strength favoured the non exerciser.
        
        hence proved, just one silo cannot give you everything, whether it is just running or just cycling.

        your genetics give you a staring place, everything else after that is decided by your activites.
    
        high twitch and low twitch muscles, it is difficult to activate high twitch muscles, you need to put very high intensity training to active them. Slow twitch are activited by daily activities.

        you speed, your agility are decided by high twitch muscles.
        with age you need to maintain high twitch muscles.
        each muscle has the high twitch and low twich.
        with exercise you can have more high twitch muslces, which is amazing.

        atheletic greens nutrition drink is cool, it meets your all foundations nutritional needs.
        athleticgreens.com
        inside tracker: for quality blood test to see what is going on within you.

        make sure your movements are symmetric, and stable, range of motion for each join should be optimal.
        muscular endurance and strength are different things.


Lecture 2:
    if you have a body, you are an athelete.
    heavy overload fights aging.
    the loss of strength is double the loss of muscle after 40.
    strength: ability to create more force.
    hypertropy: increase size.
    ligaments etc don't grow much even after hypertropy, they are called connective tissue, though they do adapt and become stronger.
    resistence training increases bone mineral density.
    
