Film Courage is an amazing youtube channel.

we all seek meaning, and that is what stories give us.
structure is your friend, it is not there to restrict you.
it is nice to know the structure, before you go off it.

A viable(feasable) film story idea has three parts:
    sympathetic, active hero(not a gender specific)
    a physical visible, high stakes goal, it has to be visual, it cannot be internal.
    a powerfull adversary. The character most active in stopping the hero.
        conflict should be as high as possible.
    
There are people, who are against or support our hero. Everything else is a prop.

after you have an idea: you need an ending, you don't start writing until you have an ending.
don't expect the story you give you an ending organically.
hence screenplays are written from back to front, you start with the ending and the place where that ending would take place and how would each character end up.
that way you would be going somewhere.
you need to know where it begins.
and you need to know some of the big moments.
give your audience enough time to connect with your hero.
sometimes the begining is even 20 minutes of first part of your movie.

after the begining you got three acts:
    act one: the ordinary world, or the hero's world just before things kick in, and there is a general goal.
             eg the ordinary world of shrek is him living in a swamp and he thinks he is happy and he wants to be left alone. Here the hero is pursuing a general goal and at the end of the act one hero now has a specific goal.
    act two: the hero forms a plan and pursues it and the plan gets totally brown out of water and destroyed. And then there is no plan and it throws hero into an act three.
    act three: the hero must improvise, there is no plan.

    act one is being an adult, act 2 is realising you need to grow and trying, and act three is where you are mature.

in act and inciting incident happens, and a stunning surprise 1 at the end of act which ends the act.
    eg the inciting incident from ET is when the ET is left behind and they meet for the first time, the stunning surprise 1 is the guy pointing out that the ET is an intelligent alien.
    now the focused goal in second act becomes to get that creature back home.
    you might bet 25-35 minutes in the movie you get your stunning surprise, it shocks and it is instant, and story doesn't build to it.
    and the second act tell you what the storyline is going to be about.
there is a climax to each act, the next always being bigger than the later one.
stunning surprises happen to our hero.
our hero is usually very crafted in what they do.
stunning surprise 1 has to change the hero's life forever, otherwise it is just an inciting incident.
eg knowing that he is a murderer is not a stunning surprise 1, it is a stunning surprise when he tries to kill you.

act 1 is 20-25 minutes long. //it should be short and engaging.
stunning surprise 2: in the climax, by the end of act 2.
    it is the biggest dramatic event in whole story.
    here the hero's plan is destroyed.
    before this plan seems to work and now the plan doesn't even exist and it looks like it is over for hero. It is called hero's darkest hour.
    but the reversals can be positive as well.

Act 3 has to be very short, and our story is over.
usually when there is a number in a movie, there is signficance to it.
we have to be shown visually and physically.

You lose your audience if the conflict is weak, and the story has to keep on changing.
you must create emotions.

six steps:
    setup, new situation,[end of act 1], pursue a specific goal, you formulate a plan and follow it, now a point of no return, now complications and higher stakes, hero has a major setback [end of act 2], one last push, the climax, the aftermath.

conflicts move the story forward.
